Source: 491996508-A-NASDAQ-100-Timing-Strategy.pdf
Pages: 6
Characters: 12902
Processing Time: 0.01s
================================================================================

--- Page 1 ---
THE NASDAQ-100 SIGNALS
The NASDAQ-100 timing signals use a mix of traditional and proprietary technical 
analysis to create computerized Buy (Up) and Sell (Down) signals for the future 
direction of the NASDAQ-100.  The signals are 100% mechanical.  That is they are 
based on programmed buy and sell RULES that have worked in the PAST and 
there is no discretionary judgment required.  These rules collectively make up the 
trading system which is run nightly to issue signals for the next market day.  An 
important aspect of this system is that it is ALWAYS in the market predicting 
either an UP or DOWN move in the NASDAQ-100.  There are never any “STOP” 
signals predicting you should NOT be invested.  Every UP signal is ALWAYS 
followed by a DOWN signal and vice versa.  The logic of the rules is based ONLY 
on the past action of the NASDAQ-100 Index from 01/02/1987 to the PRESENT in 
terms of PRICE, VOLUME, and TIME.
The MAIN RULES used try to determine if there is a trend in price or not and then 
act accordingly.

If price has moved UP ENOUGH to define an UP TREND then the system 
issues an UP SIGNAL.

If price has moved DOWN ENOUGH to define a DOWN TREND then the 
system issues a DOWN SIGNAL.

If there is NO TREND AND price has moved UP ENOUGH to be 
OVERBOUGHT then a DOWN SIGNAL is issued.

If there is NO TREND AND price has moved DOWN ENOUGH to be 
OVERSOLD then an UP SIGNAL is issued.

The only other main rule, that deviates from the above rules, is if price has 
been TRENDING DOWN ENOUGH that the market may now be considered 
a bargain because it is OVERSOLD ENOUGH then an UP SIGNAL is issued.
All the other MINOR RULES are rules that look at short-term price and volume 
PATTERNS that may sometimes form and contradict the main rules and either:

Delay or cancel the signals from the main rules until conditions are more 
favorable and in line with the main rules.  For instance if the market has 
now entered an UP TREND and the main logic wants to issue an UP SIGNAL 
but the last few days have been way above average up days and the short-
term odds are now for a short-term pullback (down move) then the UP 
SIGNAL may be filtered out for a period of time.

Take short-term high probability trades contrary to the main rules.  For 
instance if the market has entered an UP TREND and the logic of the main
rules have issued an UP SIGNAL that is expected to continue BUT short-


--- Page 2 ---
tem price and volume patterns indicate a good chance of a short-term 
pullback a DOWN SIGNAL may be issued to try to capture a few days profit 
from the expected short-term move down.  After a short time period has 
passed then another UP SIGNAL would be issued by the slower responding 
main rules still in effect.
Notice that in the above descriptions of the main rules I use the word 
“ENOUGH”.  What is enough?  That is the million dollar question.  The answer is 
that I let the computer backtest the various system parameters daily (“enough 
thresholds”) to determine what optimized thresholds were most profitable in the 
PAST and then use those.  That means that as “new history” is generated over 
time the “best” NASDAQ-100 thresholds can change and therefore so can past 
signals!  I think that is a “plus” that allows the system to slowly adapt to 
conditions over time but be aware that many if not all academicians would 
disagree.  They would point out that any change, however small, in the logic of a 
trading system means you are now using a DIFFERENT trading system and 
therefore you cannot rely on the performance of the “new” system until you 
have seen it perform in real time for an extended period and created a new track 
record.  For this same reason you should also be aware that if I can find 
additional rules (based solely on past action of the NASDAQ-100 itself), that I 
believe are conceptually sound and that in my opinion improve the overall 
historical performance by working synergistically with the systems existing rules, I 
may decide to add them to the system in the future.  These “system 
improvement” factors should be considered additional risks to the investment 
and system risks discussed in the RISK section below.
INVESTMENT VEHICLES
In order to attempt to profit from the above mentioned signals one must 
purchase an investment. You can’t make or lose money until you do.  You have 
to be in to have a chance to win. Because the signals are based on the NASDAQ-
100 stock index I believe it is best to pick an investment that moves as closely as 
possible with the up and down movements of this index. This means for our 
purposes Exchange Traded Funds (ETF’s) such as QQQ, QLD & QID, or Mutual 
funds that correlate highly with the NASDAQ-100 index. According to my 
research the greater RISK but also the greater potential reward is to be found by 
investing in the RYDEX NASDAQ-100 2x Mutual funds - symbol RYVYX (for UP 
signals) and RYVNX (for DOWN signals). These funds attempt to produce a return 
TWICE the underlying movement of the NASDAQ-100 Index.  The 2x return 


--- Page 3 ---
(return - not to be confused with profit) is NOT due to my signals.  It is due to 
being invested in the 2x RYDEX funds that use leverage to try to produce returns, 
based on the movement in price of the NASDAQ-100 Index, that are TWICE the 
UP & DOWN movement of the NASDAQ-100.  So this means that…

If on a given day the NASDAQ-100 is UP 1% the RYVYX (RYDEX Long 
Strategy) should move UP approximately 2% (make money), and the 
RYVNX (RYDEX Inverse Strategy) should move DOWN approximately 2%
(lose money).

Likewise, if the NASDAQ-100 is DOWN 1% then the RYVYX (RYDEX Long 
Strategy) should move DOWN approximately 2% (lose money) and the 
RYVNX (RYDEX Inverse Strategy) should move UP approximately 2% (make 
money).
Whatever profit or LOSS you might incur by investing in the movement of the 
NASDAQ-100 is simply approximately doubled.  The 2x funds can give you close 
to a double return when the market is moving in your favor and can double your 
loss when the market moves against you.
RISK
My understanding is the RYDEX funds use such investment vehicles as EQUITY 
INDEX SWAPS, OPTIONS and/or FUTURE CONTRACTS on the NASDAQ-100 in 
order to try to achieve the “extra” return on the movement of the NASDAQ-100.
One thus runs the RISK of making less than the return of the NASDAQ-100 if the 
market does not move “enough” in your favor to overcome any “premium” paid 
for the use of the leveraged investments used.  In addition I would assume one 
runs even greater RISK of severe and perhaps total loss in the event of a global
economic collapse than if one was just invested in the NASDAQ-100 without 
leverage.  In a financial collapse other institutions, which RYDEX uses to create 
the leverage, may be unable to honor their financial contracts with RYDEX.
When using the 2x Rydex funds our RISK and potential reward are approximately
doubled.  If we are right we can make nearly twice as much and if we are wrong 
we can LOSE nearly twice as much.  This means we must be willing to watch our 
account go DOWN 50%!  I say this because in backtesting I’ve seen the account 
equity correct (give back profits) of 23%.  Indeed you yourself have probably seen 
individual stocks go down at least this much since individual stocks often move 
more than the indexes which represent the movement of a group of stocks as a 
whole. If the NASDAQ-100 makes a sudden extreme move like during the 1987 
crash or if we invest based on signals that are wrong (LOSE money) five or more 


--- Page 4 ---
times in a row - then we may find not only that we have a 25% loss, based on the 
corresponding movements of the NASDAQ-100, but that because we are using 
Rydex 2x funds our loss is actually nearly double this - or 50%!  In other words 
this is a strategy that I think most experts would define as being EXTREMELY 
RISKY – at least if you define risk as VOLATILITY as most experts do!  One can 
potentially lose ALL ones money when investing in the stock market and with 2x 
funds this can happen TWICE as fast!  In order NOT to lose one must be right 
more often than one is wrong and/or one must lose less when one is wrong than 
one makes when one is right.  Obviously this is not easy to do or there would not
be so many people who underperform the S&P 500 and/or lose money when 
investing in equities.
SUMMARY
The NASDAQ-100 trading system issues signals, based on the hindsight of past 
NASDAQ-100 movements (which is NO GURANTEE OF FUTURE RESULTS), to make 
an “educated guess” about the future direction of the NASDAQ-100.  One may
then use these signals in an attempt to make money by using investments such as 
the RYDEX mutual funds.  When the signals are right about the future UP or 
DOWN direction one can make money and when the signals are wrong one will
LOSE money.  
The reasons I like this strategy, as I personally use it with the RYDEX funds, are:

You are always in the market and thus always have a chance to make 
money and catch the next trend or market move.

You have a chance to make money in both an up and down trending 
market as well as in the up and down movements of a sideways market.

When using the RYDEX funds for signals in a TD Ameritrade account there 
are no commissions, no SEC sell side fees, no minimum investment size, no 
minimum holding period and every dollar goes to work for you since you 
can buy fractions of a share with mutual funds.  

With the RYDEX funds you have the chance of doubling the return of the 
NASDAQ-100 if you get the direction right.  I don’t know about you but I 
would guess that most investors, who are long a portfolio of stocks in an 
up market, make money but don’t usually beat the market by a factor of 
nearly 2!

For most investors to have a chance of beating the market by a factor of 2 
they must employ the use of margin.  Margin rates are often expensive 
and you cannot use margin in a retirement account because you run the 


--- Page 5 ---
risk of losing more than you have invested.  RYDEX funds, including the 
inverse funds used to profit in a down market, can be used in a retirement 
account because you cannot lose more than you invest in them.  You can 
however make or lose money twice as quickly.

You don’t have to monitor the performance of a portfolio of stocks but 
only your one RYDEX position.  Less work.

Although you hold only one position at a time you have the diversification 
and financial size of the stocks that make up the NASDAQ-100 index which 
limits your risk.  Compare this to holding the stock of one individual 
company that can then announces earnings, after the close or before the 
open of the market, which causes the stock to gap up or down in price 
before you have a chance to act.

The computerized signals are 100% mechanical and based on the action of 
the NASDAQ-100 only.  This takes emotion, ego, and subjective judgment
out of the signal equation and allows NASDAQ-100 action alone to force it 
to correct its “mistakes”.  Thus there is no way you can end up holding a 
losing position just because some analyst thinks the market should be 
going the other way or because the dollar, or some commodity, or some 
economic indicator is “indicating” the market “should” be behaving 
differently than it is.

The system that generates the signals is self-adjusting.  Although the rules 
are fixed the thresholds that trigger each rule are constantly backtested 
from 1/1/1987 to the present and each day signals are generated from the 
current optimized set of parameters.  So the hope is that if the trading 
characteristics of the NASDAQ-100 slowly change over time so will the 
system.

The system has performed very well now for over two years in 
independently verified real time.
This strategy, as defined above, should be considered EXTREMLY RISKY because 
of:

The use of the RYDEX 2x funds as investment vehicles which can double 
losses when the signals are wrong and which may not be profitable even if 
the NASDAQ-100 moves in the direction of the signals.

The daily optimization of system parameters.

The possibility of new rules being added to the system, which generates 
the signals, by the system developer.
Because of the risky nature of the above strategy one should only invest money 
one can afford to lose in this approach!


--- Page 6 ---
The NASDAQ-100 system only provides you with signals which may, and often 
will, prove to be wrong in their future prediction of NASDAQ-100 movement.  
How you use these signals is up to YOU!  The strategy outlined above is only how 
I use the signals in my own account and is NOT and should NOT be considered 
investment advice.  You should consult with your own financial advisor before 
deciding if and how you wish to use the signals in your own personal financial 
situation.