Source: 484567392-traderunner-pro-A-Complete-BookMap-Review-pdf.pdf
Pages: 14
Characters: 18926
Processing Time: 0.01s
================================================================================

--- Page 1 ---
TradeRunner Articles , Reviews , Technology , Tools
10/11/2015
A Complete BookMap Review
traderunner.pro/complete-bookmap-review/
5
There’s a huge industry in creating software for traders and much of it is frankly an expensive waste of time.
However, every so often, a software developer comes along and brings something entirely new to the table.
Something of genuine intrigue. VeloxPro seem to have done just that. So let’s take a look at it in this complete
BookMap review.
Over the past few months, I’ve been fortunate enough to get to grips with this new piece of software that holds real
promise to those willing to invest the time and eﬀort required to learn it. BookMap X-Ray is a tool for visualizing the
current and historical orderbook – something that day traders have had to do by memory until now.
BookMap X-Ray is a great piece of software, but for those of you who aren’t quite ready to make the leap just yet, I
want to run through the features of this still very new software and suggest to you some uses for it.
Great Software Comes From Great Developers
Since I ﬁrst came across BookMap, I’ve met some of the people from VeloxPro who are behind the software. What
this did for me apart from giving me the belief that they are a genuine bunch of decent chaps, was tell me where it
all began for them.
Many trading tool developers come from the place they look to serve – day traders develop tools for day trading for
example. And this perhaps explains why BookMap oﬀers a unique market perspective.
The background of the team seems to universally be one stemming from the world of HFT. These are the guys
who write the sort of algorithms that instruct computers to send order instructions based on predeﬁned rules. They
come from part of the trading world where millisecond timeframes are no longer fast enough. Where algos
constantly search for liquidity and press direction using limit orders as their tools.
HFT has changed the game for day traders and now, perhaps, some canny software developers from the world of
HFT are helping to swing the pendulum back to some extent.
But one good idea doesn’t make a great piece of software does it? Nope. In fact, it can make an infuriatingly useless
piece of software which, consistently ﬂatters to deceive. Developers who fail to implement their software properly
and fail to listen to the customers they serve, usually end up losing out to someone else who eventually “does it
right”.
Having already worked with some of the guys behind BookMap, I’m pretty sure they are the polar opposite of this
kind of developer.
The Orderbook X-Rayed
Okay, so I’ve already said that BookMap is a tool for visualizing the current and historical orderbook. But how is
that useful? Well, it makes reading market activity and orderﬂow much simpler.
1/14


--- Page 2 ---
Before we go any further, I really should point out another
feature that in my opinion, is absolutely critical to making
this software incredibly useful instead of being just
another chocolate teapot. The feature I’m referring to is
Volume Dots – these are conﬁgurable visualizations of
trade size and intensity.
In reality, it’s this symbiosis of the orderbook heatmap and
volume dots, which creates such a powerful visual tool for
traders to read and understand trading activity and
orderﬂow. The way BookMap X-Ray translates how the
market is set and how it reacts to volume trading at
particular prices is invaluable.
Going back to the heatmap itself, it’s the historical element that makes it so powerful. Traditionally, if you wanted
to read the DOM or orderbook, you’d have to memorize what was queuing and where at any given time. You’d also
need to have a rough idea of what traded there – at least any sizeable trades that went through anyway. Of course,
you could look at the tape/time & sales for this, but that’s not exactly an intuitive approach to getting the information
you need.
If you had a decent memory and a superb attention span, you might be able to create a kind of mental orderbook
heatmap. And whilst that’s certainly possible to do, it takes some time to get decent at it. When it comes down to
it though, it’s just not that easy at all.
The thing is, it’s important to realise that there are all kinds of movements in the orderbook happening all the time.
2/14


--- Page 3 ---
So you still need to interpret what the tool is showing you. The information has to be put into the context of what
the market has done and what your setups are.
Some Simple Applications to Consider
I can certainly see that there are going to be a lot of people who will love this product. Prop traders to start with
(probably why they support TT X-Trader). But there will also be plenty of guys who will think it looks fantastic, but
don’t really know what to do with it.
I want to highlight some basic ways of using BookMap, but I’d also point out that there are live webinars that
VeloxPro run all the time and plenty of YouTube videos that cover a variety of ideas on how to use it.
Real volume
The ﬁrst and perhaps most obvious application is seeing where real volume is and how the market reacts to it.
There’s plenty of market making, spread trading and various other activity in the markets that makes you think
there’s decent volume interest in the orderbook, yet when the market gets anywhere close to the order, it gets
moved and so never actually executes.
Volume that sits there is a diﬀerent matter though. It shows intent to execute for whatever the reason might be.
Of course, seeing this kind of thing happen at a level that you were already interested in trading, might just give you
more conﬁdence to take the trade.
Spotting algos in action
Algos are prevalent in electronic markets – or at least, that’s what we are led to believe. I don’t disagree, although I
don’t believe that there are anywhere near the amount of algos making trading decisions without any sort of active
3/14


--- Page 4 ---
human input.
However, BookMap does do a good job of highlighting nefarious activity in the markets, algorithmic or otherwise.
Quickly spotting this kind of activity can help you to recognize it for what it really is .
Feel and ﬂow of the market
Seeing how the market is ﬂowing is a great way to judge its current mood. It can, in combination with proper
analysis, give you excellent clues to what the market might be trying to do and how it might react to certain prices.
Some might believe that there’s a fantastic indicator out there that’ll give you a reliable read on this, but to me, the
feel of the market is far more subjective and when it comes down to it, reading subtle diﬀerences is something the
human brain is very good at (if you can see it in the ﬁrst place) – although clearly, not everyone is brilliant at deciding
how to act based on this information!
If you’re not convinced of the value of being in sync with the ﬂow of the market, consider it from a diﬀerent angle.
When you’re clearly out of sync with market ﬂow, what does your performance generally look like? Mine personally,
isn’t fantastic. BookMap not only helps you stay in sync by its very nature, but it also allows for session recording
and playback to go over a session after the fact, if you feel like you’re on the wrong end of every reversal.
Core BookMap Features
For a new piece of software envisioned and built from scratch, BookMap already has a whole host of great features.
Here are a few of them that I think you’d potentially ﬁnd useful.
Historical Orderbook Heatmap
This is the number 1 feature. The heatmap is based on the number of orders on each price at any given
4/14


--- Page 5 ---
moment in time. The intensity automatically updates by default, but like the brightness and contrast, it’s user
deﬁnable.
It should be noted how the software updates price and the
orderbook. It’s not based on new quotes and trades coming
in via your datafeed, but rather by time. Each pixel is an
amount of time and you can zoom in or out to view smaller
or larger amounts of time per pixel (use mouse scroll wheel
as a handy shortcut for doing this).
So each pixel is eﬀectively a snapshot of the market
data at that point in time.
Because the heatmap intensity is displayed based on the
number of orders at any given time, there is a slight inherent
weakness in BookMap. If someone places an order of much
greater size (but clearly fake) than any other price, the map
will fade and the heatmap intensity at all other prices will
become useless. You could adjust this so the large size
isn’t the benchmark value, but then you’d lose its deﬁnition
too. Also, in a product where the diﬀerence in resting orders
over the whole book is much smaller in terms of
percentage, you’ll get a display that doesn’t provide you
with much deﬁnition.
VeloxPro have built in extra features here to make the
necessary adjustments, but just be aware that there will be
some tweaking required in some situations.
Volume Dots
Because of the time-based updating, it’s important to
recognize that volume dots are the volume per pixel, not
per trade. It’s fairly natural to assume that a discrete dot represents a single trade and it’s a mistake I initially made.
This however, is not the case.
Because of this, the price the dot is centred on is based on the VWAP of the pixel’s volume . So a pixel that
trades 28 at 2028.75, 12 at 2029.00, 3 at 2029.25 and 4 at 2029.50 will show a price of 2028.91. This becomes far
more important the more you are zoomed out where there’s likely to be a greater spread of traded prices within each
pixel.
5/14


--- Page 6 ---
There are a number of settings you can change for the dots. You can ﬁlter trade size and dot size separately,
meaning there must be a minimum size of a single trade and/or total pixel volume for the dot to show up at all. Great
if you’re trying to spot bigger players perhaps…
You can also change the size and transparency of the dots. Finally, you can opt to hide a dot when it reaches a
certain density (although I’m not 100% sure of why you’d do this).
The other crucial point to the volume dots is that you can select the buy and sell colours. By default these are set to
yellow for buy and red for sell. I’ve changed the sell colour to blue though. The reason for this is that when a dot
has a combination of buys and sells, the colours blend and I was ﬁnding the various shades of orange not
especially distinguishable. Mine changes to diﬀerent shades of green. But that’s just me and your eyes are almost
certainly diﬀerent to mine – so play with the colour settings and see what works for you.
Diﬀerentiation between buy/sell volume dots might be easier with a third colour and/or a diﬀerent shape entirely –
that’s probably one for the roadmap though.
NEED DATA? For a 14 day fully featured 100% FREE trial of S5 Trader, click here
Info column
The info columns are designed to be ﬂexible. There are a number of options to show per column and you can
6/14


--- Page 7 ---
choose how many columns you want to display. The options are: – orderbook, volume, trades, quotes, quotes delta,
custom notes.
Having the option to add custom notes is something that you might ﬁnd helpful if
you wish to note down particular prices – an NFP high and low for example might
be worth adding a note for.
Another possible way of conﬁguring a map is to be zoomed in and display the
current volume – this can give you a very nice clue to how the very recent action
has developed.
For each item, there’s the ability to show numbers and/or bars, bid/ask/both, split
the bid/ask display, choose a custom justiﬁcation and display data in view/session
accumulated/since last user reset.
Trading
Trading is possible directly from a map (paid add-on). To enable trading you must
click on the cog icon at the top of the map, check “Enable One-Click Trading” and
then select your default order size.
7/14


--- Page 8 ---
Clicks to the right of the price line will send orders. A left mouse click will send
a buy limit and a right mouse click will send a sell limit. A middle click at a
price level will cancel the last order at that price and ctrl + middle mouse
button click will cancel all orders at that price. Clicking on the big X at the top
of the map next to your P&L will cancel all orders and clicking on the exit icon
to the right of that will close an open position.
8/14


--- Page 9 ---
I’m not a big fan of the way BookMap currently handles trading if I’m being honest. I’m not against it in principle as
not having to ﬂick your eyes between various diﬀerent platforms is deﬁnitely something I’d prefer.
Although I don’t think the trading options are particularly well covered (e.g. diﬀerent order types, dragging to move
orders), probably the main reason that I wouldn’t use it is that it still doesn’t have a ﬁxable price scale – meaning at
any given point, the price that you thought you were clicking on can move. What I’d like to see is an option to
make it move like a normal DOM.
I have been informed that this has been added to product roadmap, but I honestly don’t know when it will be
available.
There is one current beneﬁt however. BookMap will link into your trade account and show you where your orders are
even if you’ve placed them in S5 Trader for example. So this way, it’s easy to see if your orders are well placed
relative to current liquidity in the orderbook.
Market Playback
If you’ve used Linnsoft IRT, Market Delta or Sierra Chart extensively, you’ll probably at the very least, come across
their market playback functionality. Futurestrader71 is a big advocate of using playback as a method of getting in
sync with the markets, especially after a week or so of not trading.
BookMap also has the ability to playback market data once it’s been recorded.
9/14


--- Page 10 ---
In the latest version (I’m using 4.3.0 beta 101), you have the option to playback data at various steps between 1/8x
and 128x.
The one big problem with this is that it doesn’t currently have a way of rewinding or skipping forward like you’d see
on a video player. This would be a HUGE improvement to the feature.
Add-on Studies
There are various other studies which may or may not be especially useful to you depending on your strategy. They
are as follows (Iceberg, Large Lot Tracker and Imbalance are paid add-ons): –
Hand tool
10/14


--- Page 11 ---
This tool is way, way more useful than I initially realised. What it basically does is allow you to scroll the chart back.
Whilst it might have been easier to just add a scroll bar for this functionality, the best part of the hand tool more than
makes up for its slightly awkward implementation.
What happens when you scroll back is that not only do you see the historical orderbook, but you also see exactly
what your info columns were at that moment in time. So you’d see what the session volume proﬁle was up to
that point for example. You’d also see exactly what the orderbook was at that time. So it’s incredibly fast and easy to
go back and see how a market behaved if you missed it at the time. Very nice indeed!
Tooltip
The tooltip tool is just a far easier way of viewing the orderbook and trade info of a particular pixel. Before it was a
feature, you’d have to hover over the pixel, keep your mouse steady and then look to the info bar at the bottom of the
map.
Time Slices
This feature allows you to quickly select a few diﬀerent timeframes for the entire map to display (not time per pixel).
It’s pretty useful as it allows you to switch between views quickly. The problem comes however,
when you have volume dots conﬁgured for a speciﬁc view. You might want to have them set to
display a higher minimum pixel volume when zoomed out than when you’re zoomed in.
There doesn’t seem to be an easy way around this. You can’t even open more than one map of
the same instrument in the version that I’m reviewing. Still, this software is constantly evolving.
Sign up to stay informed.
Datafeed Connectivity
In terms of datafeed requirements, you have several options. S5 Trader, which is an OEC (now
Futures Online) white label, is able to connect and Stage 5 Trading do have exclusive rights for
this feed at the moment. You can also connect via CQG, DTN IQFeed (you’ll need level 2
data though), TT X-Trader Pro, NinjaTrader and Interactive Brokers.
One word of warning though – you can’t currently use it with any supported feed if like many traders, you have more
than one of the ones they support. You can swap feeds, but you must contact them in order to change this rather
than being able to switch between feeds yourself (as far as I know).
One other point about data is that they don’t support historical data even if you save your data as historical. This
might not seem like much of an issue, but when the program crashes (although it’s generally very stable) or more
likely Windows or Java crash (which BM runs on), you lose all your live session data and must start the data ﬁle
11/14


--- Page 12 ---
again. So even though you’ve been running and recording BookMap, you’ll not see initially anything on your maps
when you restart the software.
BookMap Reviewed
There are bits and pieces that could have probably be done a little bit better and I’m sure new useful features will
come in the future too. The one other issue that I’ve not mentioned yet is that the colour settings leave something to
be desired. Although there are several options, there aren’t enough for the bid and ask colours. If you want a
diﬀerent colour proﬁle to your bid/ask lines for example, you’re out of luck.
That said, the guys at VeloxPro are very responsive and they are constantly working to improve their software. They
should be extremely proud of what they’ve achieved so far.
BookMap X-Ray is a cutting edge trading tool and although there is established orderﬂow software competition in
the form of IRT (with the new “Trail of Intentions” feature), Jigsaw Trading, Market Delta (footprint) and Sierra Chart
(numbers bars), this is in my opinion the one to watch.
It’s a very cool bit of software and I’d go as far as saying that it’s a game changer.
 
BookMap’s pricing model has now changed. They
now charge $49 per month for BookMap Basic and
$99 per month for BookMap Advanced (BM Basic +
add-ons) both billed quarterly.
Remember that you can also use S5 BookMap with
other datafeeds if you contact their support.
To gain access to a fully functional 100% FREE 14
day trial of S5 BookMap, please click on the banner
below.
NEED DATA? For a 14 day fully featured 100% FREE trial of S5 Trader, click here
You may also like:
12/14


--- Page 13 ---
Dumb Trades, Bad Beats and Going “On Tilt” – part 2
CTS T4 Trade History Tick Chart
Dumb Trades, Bad Beats and Going “On Tilt
FT71 Trade Wisdom: Success In Trading
A Better App Than Evernote?
Big ES Delta - Excel Analysis
A Little Bit of Lateral Excel Thinking
Ridiculous Trading Algos Gone Wild!
13/14


--- Page 14 ---
14/14