Source: 377235419-Futures-Trading.pdf
Pages: 74
Characters: 103574
Processing Time: 0.06s
================================================================================

--- Page 1 ---
NetPicks
Futures
Tutorials
The basics of Futures
Trading


--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Futures 1, 2, 3
Futures Trading
Futures Trading Charts
How do Futures Contract Rollover Days Work
Choosing the Best Time to Trade Futures
Charting the Right Session Times in Futures
Futures trading software for your trading business
The New Mini DAX Futures
Trade Management Lessons from the FTSE
Futures
Learn How to Trade Grain Futures
Crude Oil Futures Trading Basics
Day Trading Crude Oil Futures Explained


--- Page 4 ---
13.
14.
15.
16.
Day Trading eMini & S&P 500 Futures
Learn To Trade Futures
Futures Trading Systems
4 Tips to Create a Winning Strategy for Futures
Day Traders


--- Page 5 ---
We wanted to develop a course that can take someone who is a brand new
trader and teach them everything they need to know about Futures
Trading, so they will be comfortable with possibly trading in this market.
You will discover that there are many different types or classes of futures
contracts, as they can cover many different markets that can be traded.
Here is an overview of the topics we will cover:
What is a Futures Contract
Where are they traded
How does Futures Trading Work
Margin Requirements
Understanding Ticks and Contract Value and Leverage
How Futures Differ from Other Financial Instruments
How to know which Futures Contract Month to Trade
Up Down Limits on Contracts
Spreads and Bid-Ask Price and Slippage
Order Types
Final Steps, Selecting a Broker and Account Size
Let’s start out with the definition of what a futures contract is and give you
a few terms that will help you understand and then give you a history of
how these contracts came into existence.
In finance, a futures contract (more colloquially, futures) is a standardized
Futures 1, 2, 3


--- Page 6 ---
agreement between a buyer and a seller to exchange an amount and grade
of an item at a specific price and future date. The item or underlying asset
may be an agricultural commodity, metal, mineral or energy commodity, a
financial instrument or even a foreign currency. Because futures contracts
are derived from these underlying assets, they belong to a family of
financial instruments called derivatives.
History of Futures Trading
Futures are among the oldest derivatives contracts. They were originally
designed to allow farmers to hedge against changes in the prices of their
crops between planting and when crops could be harvested and brought to
market. As such, many futures contracts focus on things such as livestock
(cattle) and grains (wheat). Since these beginnings, the futures market has
expanded to include contracts linked to a wide variety of assets, including
precious metals (gold), industrial metals (aluminum), energy (oil), bonds
(Treasury bonds) and stocks (S&P 500).
Now that you have a basic idea of what futures contracts are let’s take a
look at where it all started. The first futures exchange market was the
Dojima Rice Exchange in Osaka, Japan in 1710. It came to meet the needs
of samurai who were paid in rice, and after a series of bad harvests, they
needed a stable conversion to money. Their main purpose was to help
provide stability to price and reduce risk to the producer and the consumer
of these goods.
In 1864 the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) listed the first-ever
standardized 'exchange traded' forward contracts, which were called
futures contracts. This contract was based on grain trading and started a
trend that saw contracts created on a number of different commodities as
well as a number of futures exchanges set up in countries around the world.
In 1898 the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) was founded as the
Chicago Butter and Egg Board, an agricultural commodities exchange.
Originally, the exchange was a non-profit organization. The CME went
private in November 2000, and went public in December 2002, and merged
with the CBOT in July 2007 to become the largest Exchange and Market
Maker for most all Futures Contracts. They also merged with the New York
Exchanges (NYMEX, and COMEX) for Oil and Gold contract trading. This is
now all owned by the CME Group. There headquarters is on 20 South
Wacker Drive in Chicago, and you can visit this exchange in person.


--- Page 7 ---
I went to the exchange when I was in Chicago and saw the “pits” as they
call them, where people yell out prices and buy and sell contracts on the
floor of the exchange. They had a welcome video that gives you a very
simple view of futures trading and what the exchange does. It is well worth
watching, and you should visit the exchange some time if you want to see it
firsthand.
http://bcove.me/f4fm35st
Where are Futures Traded
Here is a list of some names of the Exchanges and many of the popular
Futures Contracts so you can get a feel of the exchange you will be dealing
with and these various instruments.
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)- S&P 500, Nasdaq 100
New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)- Crude Oil, Natural Gas, Heating
Oil (COMEX)- Gold, Silver, Copper
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT)- Dow, Corn, Soybeans, Cattle, Wheat
Intercontinental Exchange(ICE)-Russell 2000 index
Eurex Exchange (EUREX)-DAX, EURO Bund, EURO Bobl
Futures trading is regulated. Here in the United States, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) is the independent government agency.
The National Futures Association (NFA) is an independent, self-regulating
organization and watchdog of the commodities and futures industry. They
oversee and protect investors from fraudulent commodities and futures
activities.
How does Futures Trading Work
Futures traders are traditionally placed in one of two groups: hedgers, who
have an interest in the underlying asset and are seeking to hedge out the
risk of price changes; and speculators, who seek to make a profit by
predicting market moves and opening a derivative contract related to the
asset "on paper."
Some examples of Hedgers are Farmer's manufactures, importers, and


--- Page 8 ---
exporters. They buy or sell in the market to secure the future price of a
commodity. This helps protect against price risk. Speculators typically fall
into three categories: position traders, day traders and swing traders. They
are just trying to profit from the price of the commodity going up or down.
They have no interest in taking delivery of the commodity once the contract
expires.
These investors or Speculators are required to put up funds or a Margin to
control this contract they are purchasing. This is to minimize the risk to the
exchange and to make sure that the contract will be covered. Usually, the
margin is 5% to 15% of the contract's value.
To minimize the risk to traders, trades executed on regulated futures
exchanges are guaranteed by a clearing house. The clearing house
becomes the buyer to each seller, and the seller to each Buyer, so that in
the event of a counterparty default the clearer assumes the risk of loss. This
insures that trades will be executed at a price listed on the exchange.
Margin Requirements
The initial margin is the equity required to initiate a futures position. It is a
type of performance bond. The maximum exposure is not limited to the
amount of the initial margin; however, the initial margin requirement is
calculated based on the maximum estimated change in contract value
within a trading day. Initial margin is set by the exchange. So, your broker
will give you your minimum account balance that is required to trade
various markets.
It is possible that if the value of your contract goes down, you might be
required to add funds to your account to bring the balance up to the
minimum margin required. You can always sell the contract for a loss;
however, if you are holding a position longer than a day, the brokers want
you to have a larger margin. So, there are two margins, day trading margin,
which assumes that you will close the trade out the same day; and
overnight margin, which assumes that you will hold the position overnight.
That carries more risk so that the margin will be higher.
In most cases, when we trade we don’t hold the trade for very long (day
trade) and we teach you to use just a very small amount of risk or leverage
on each trade. So it would be very rare that you would ever get a margin
call unless you are trading a very small account and the broker is letting


--- Page 9 ---
you use more leverage than you should. We just wanted to let you know
that there is risk in trading and that margin calls are possible if you are
overtrading for your size account. We will go over account size and risk
later in the education.
Let’s talk about Leverage. When you buy or sell a futures contract, you
don’t need to pay for the entire contract at the time the trade is initiated.
Instead, the individual makes a small up-front payment to initiate a
position. For example, one gold contract controls 100 troy ounces of Gold.
Let’s say Gold is trading at $1200 you are controlling $120,000 worth of
Gold, but only have to have about $5000 for an initial margin on your
account to trade the one contract.
Understanding Ticks and Contract Value and
Leverage
Now that you know how much gold you are controlling let’s take a look at
how the value of the contract will change with each tick of price movement.
So, a tick is the smallest amount of price movement on that market. I am
sure that most of you are familiar with stocks and how they trade. They
move in cents, so the smallest tick on a stock is .01 or one cent. The value of
each tick, in the case of a stock, is dependent upon how much stock you
own, right? If you have 100 shares and it moves one tick (or .01 one cent),
then you have made 100X.01 or a Dollar.
With futures, the value of each tick depends on upon the commodity that
you are trading. For gold, each tick has a value of $10 and the tick size is
.10 (Ten Cents). Other markets have smaller Tick Values so that they can be
traded with smaller accounts. For example, the Nasdaq is $5 a tick, and it
moves in .25 increments per tick. So, if the Nasdaq moves up four ticks
(4X.25), the value of the contract would increase by four times $5 or $20.
All of this information is listed on the CMEGroup for each instrument so
don’t worry if it seems complex. You will want to learn more about the
Futures market that you are looking to trade so that it will become second
nature, and it will be as easy as trading something like a stock if you are
familiar with that. Here is the page on gold at the CMEGroup with all of the
specifications.
http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/metals/precious/gold_contract_specific
ations.html


--- Page 10 ---
How Futures Differ from Other Financial
Instruments
There are some other key differences in Futures markets as compared to
other financial instruments. For starters, the value of a futures contract is
determined by the movement of something else (the underlying asset) and
the futures contract itself has no inherent value. Secondly, futures have a
finite life. Unlike stocks, which can stay in existence forever, a futures
contract has a set expiration date after which the contract ceases to exist.
This is not a major factor in the contract you will be trading is almost always
the one with the most volume, and so it is very liquid, but you need to know
which contract you should be trading.
Let’s take a look at some contracts and volumes on these contracts, so you
know which one to trade. Again all of this information is on the Exchange
website here, but I will put it in a screen shot for example.
http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/metals/precious/gold_quotes_volume_v
oi.html
If you look at the website on Gold, you will see that the contract you should
be trading is February 2015. It has the most volume. You also see that it
changes each month. Some Futures contracts like the S&P 500 or Soybeans
change quarterly, but you will know which one by the most volume.
As you get towards the end of the month or quarter, you will see that
volume goes down on the current month contract and increases on the next
month contract. It is very simple, switch to the next month contract once
the volume is greater on that contract.
Here is a great example on Oil on December 16th.
You see that there is more volume on the January contract, but that Feb is
getting higher, so keep trading January. This next shot shows volume split
almost equal, the next day. So that would be your last day of trading the
January contract, move to the February Contract on Dec 18th. See how
easy that is!
Also, you see there is some volume on March contract, but those are just
some Hedgers, all of the Speculators (day traders) are on the February
contract. They also have the information on the last day the contact will


--- Page 11 ---
expire, so you know in advance when to start watching the volume. Like I
tell everyone in the trade room, you should know your market.
I can tell you that you will switch Oil contracts around the 19th of every
month. The exact date is listed on the Exchange site and so you know if it
will happen a few days before the 19th or a few days after. In the case
below, it happened a few days before as the Settlement date was listed as
Dec 19th. Most brokers will not let you trade a day before settlement date,
but that is the last day possible. It also gives you the Symbol to trade for
each month.
How to know which Futures Contract Month
to Trade
That is another question we get all the time. What symbol are we trading?
So, if you know where the volume is and look it up on the site you have all
this information, but why is the Symbol or Product Code in this example
CLF15. We can break that down for you. CL gives you the base Contract
name in this case Crude Oil, and the 15 is the year 2015. What about that
Letter in the middle. Why is F used for January? Why not A for the first letter
of the Alphabet and the first month of the year? I am not sure why, but
there is a table that shows you what letter is used for each month, as they
never change you can refer to it.
Sometimes, you will skip letters and some markets like I mentioned earlier
don’t trade each month, but the contracts change each quarter. I have
attached a picture of the S&P Emini; you will see that the contracts trade
each quarter. I have also attached a picture that shows you the table of the
letter used for each calendar month of the contracts.
Up Down Limits on Markets
Some futures markets have a maximum price advance or decline in a
contract from the previous day’s settlement price permitted during one
trading session. This is usually only on the Agricultural products that can
have some extreme moves in a one-day session. Here is a screen shot of
Corn Futures from the CME website, showing you the Limit up and down
price allowed for the session. It rarely comes into play, but you need to be
aware of it, if you are trading on one of those days and the market has
moved very closely to the up or down limit. Trading will not be allowed to go


--- Page 12 ---
past those limits for that day.
Spreads and Bid-Ask Price and Slippage
Most every market has a Bid and an Ask price. The bid is the price you can
buy the contract, and the asking price is the price you can sell the contract.
The difference between these two prices is called the spread. In most all
futures contacts the spread is very small, maybe one tick of price
movement. Other markets like Heating Oil Futures, the spread, is larger,
because there is less volume and it is thinly traded. Also, if you trade
outside of the normal market hours, there is less volume and the spread
can get larger. In most of the trading we do with Oil or the S&P Emini, there
is a lot of volumes and the spread is the smallest it can be, 1 tick.
When you place an order, you might not get filled at that exact price. The
price might shoot up quickly, and so you get your order filled at a higher
price than you wanted, usually just a tick or two more than your price, this is
called slippage. Slippage is quite common and can’t be avoided in trading,
so you just have to accept it as a cost of doing business.
You can try and minimize it by, using a Stop Limit Order. This tells your
broker that you only want to enter that market at that exact price. The
problem is that your order might not get filled and the market moves up to
your target, and you miss the trade. This is the only way to control slippage
on the entry price, but like we said, it is normal to get zero to 2 ticks of
slippage on a fast moving market. It is possible to get “positive slippage”
where you get a better price than you asked, maybe on the entry or the
target, but that is not as common as “regular negative slippage.”
Order Types
I mentioned Stop Limit Orders before when I talked about limiting spread.
Here is a listing of the various order types and what they do. In most cases,
you enter the position with a limit order, and you exit the order at a limit
order or a stop order. I just wanted to tell you what the other order types
mean.
Market Order- This is executed immediately at best possible price at the
market. You don’t know what it might be, but is should be close to the
current market price. You don’t use this much unless you want to quickly
enter or exit the market, due to some situation.


--- Page 13 ---
Stop Order- This is used on the Entry and the exit for the trade. The Stop
Order converts to a Market Order once price reaches the Stop Order price.
However, you are not guaranteed to fill at that exact price.
Limit Order- This is used to set an exact price you want to enter or exit the
trade. You can still have slippage on this type of order.
Stop Limit Order- This is a combination of a Stop and Limit order. On the
Entry price, once price reaches the Limit entry, you can specify how much
slippage you want to take on the trade, one or two ticks or more. You never
want to use this as the stop on your trade, because price can go through
your stop price and you don’t fill. So, you wanted to be out of the trade, but
you are still in.
Final Steps, Selecting a Broker and Account
Size
There are many futures brokers out there, and so you should do some
research on your own. Make sure they are regulated; they can be the US or
Overseas Broker as Futures is traded on global markets. Each broker will
have a different minimum account size to open. Also, as we discussed, you
will need a certain minimum margin in the account to trade different
contracts. Beware of some Metatrader 4 brokers. Metatrader is mostly used
for the Spot Forex market and so they don’t specialize in futures trading. I
think that you will find that the spreads are much larger than a dedicated
futures broker. This will cost you money on every trade. Finally, some MT4
brokers don’t trade the most liquid contracts, so make sure you check with
the exchange and look up the volume on the contract they are offering.
You account size will vary by the market you are looking to trade. We talked
about different contracts and leverage and value of each market. The
exchange has a minimum margin on each market, and the broker will also
have one for day and swing trades. You need at least 5,000 to open and
trade 1 contract on some of the smaller value contracts and larger amounts
on other markets like Oil, or the DAX. This is because the Nasdaq is $5 a
tick, and Oil is $10 a tick, and the DAX is $25 Euros. Here is a chart of the
account minimums for some of the markets.
Now that you know most everything you need to get started, you will want
to find a company with a trading strategy that you can use to give you high
probability trades. Then open a demo account and practice. Learn about


--- Page 14 ---
the particular market that you are going to trade and then once you have
proven to yourself that you can make money in the demo and execute the
trades. Then start out trading a very small amount of money and make sure
you can stick to the trade rules with real money.
We here at Netpicks pride ourselves on teaching new traders. We give you a
sound trading strategy, a live room to demo, practice and learn. Exact trade
plans that guide you in each trade and tell you exactly when and when not
to trade. With these tools, you should be able to become a successful
trader. You can learn more at www.netpicks.com.


--- Page 15 ---
Futures trading has been a long time favorite at NetPicks.
In fact, when we started back in 1996 one of the first futures markets we
traded and taught was trading the S&P futures contract - full-size.
These days, futures trading has advanced significantly.:
Near instant execution
Low-cost trading
Multiple market choices
Individual traders, in particular, are well served with the E-Mini futures
contracts.
You can choose from the S&P, Nasdaq, Dow, Russell, and more.
Futures trading of commodity contracts such as the Energies, Agricultural,
Futures Trading


--- Page 16 ---
Metals and Financial instruments are all available and highly liquid.
Perhaps our favorite aspect of futures trading is they tend to fit our mantra
"Get in, Get out, Get done" when it comes to our futures trading.
Primarily day trading, we look to reach what we call our Power of Quitting
and finish most trading days as quickly as possible.
With set hours, and small periods of the best volatility you'll find futures
trading can be ideal for the active individual trader.
Learn Futures Trading
To learn futures trading, it's important to realize you have several areas
that you'll need to learn and master.
Futures contracts are different than your typical stock shares, in particular
because you are trading a future price, and these are all expiring contracts.
It's important to know both how to chart the futures contract, trade the
correct front month contract (always where we day trade) and understand
the numerous nuances to futures trading.
The learning curve can be shortened with the right
education.
Beginning Futures Trading
For those brand new to trading Futures, we recommend you start here:
What Is Futures Trading?
Online Future Trading
What is Options Trading?
Learn To Trade Futures Online
How To Trade Futures
For The Intermediate Futures Trader
Intermediate Futures traders are those with some experience under their
belts and looking to expand their knowledge:
Learn How To Trade Grain Futures


--- Page 17 ---
Crude Oil Trading Basics
Futures Trading Charts
Future Trading Software
Learn How To Auto Trade With Optimized Trading Systems
Advance Futures Trading
Even after trading for years, it is always a good idea to continue to grow
your knowledge base.
Automated Futures Trading Systems
Day Trading Crude Oil Futures Explained
3 Tips To Improve Your Trading Performance Now
When Do Candlestick Patterns Really Work?
Learn To Trade Futures With the M6E
Futures Trading Videos
Futures Trading
Systems
Online Futures
Trading
Day Trading Crude Oil Futures
Explained
Futures Trading Strategies
Futures trading strategies tend to be highly technically bases. We typically
find that developing a complete trade plan is key.
A trading plan consists of an exact futures trading strategy. These futures
trading strategies are typically made up of a set of indicators along with
clear cut rules to ensure we always know our exact entry, stop and target
on every trade we place in the futures markets.
This is essential because you will be utilizing leverage in the futures markets,
and that must be clearly defined.
You'll want a combination of software, trade plans and training including
ongoing live support to master trading these markets.


--- Page 18 ---
Future Trading Systems
If you want to be an active day trader, futures are really the way to go.
But to some, the world of futures trading is a dangerous business – a world
where fast money and blown up accounts often go hand-in-hand.
And the simple fact is that this is not an unusual reality in the industry.
But there’s another reality for those who understand the risks involved and
maintain appropriate safeguards: trading futures markets is one of the
most efficient ways to use your capital.
There are at least 3 highly compelling reasons to trade and moreover day
trade futures markets. Read more
Crude Oil Futures Trading Basics
Any trader can learn how to trade crude oil futures. Just make sure you
respect the risk and realize that you have to treat this as a very serious and
professional endeavor
Crude oil is a very volatile market that most newcomers to trading should
avoid.
However, it's good to understand this trading instrument so you can see the
potential opportunities in trading it once you become more skilled as a
trader..
Treat it like a business and approach it with the same due diligence that
you would apply to any business opportunity. Read more.
3 Tips to Improve Trading Performance Now
In a world where the information available to us is growing at an
exponential rate, we must be mindful of the fact that we have a limited
capacity to receive, process and incorporate ideas into our own lives.
So as a principle, it’s wise to reserve your effort for those things that are
likely to make the biggest difference to whatever it is that you’re trying to
achieve.


--- Page 19 ---
Here are 3 tips to improve trading performance that will make a genuine
difference. Read more


--- Page 20 ---
If you do a search for “futures trading charts” or “commodity trading
charts” on the internet you will be presented with millions of results,
obviously too many to check out individually.  This article will present you
with a few of the major options available to you.
The first place to look for futures trading charts is with your broker.  Almost
every broker will offer some kind of charting capability, and if they don’t
provide their own charting software then they will give you access to third
party charting software.  One very powerful and popular charting software
package used by many futures brokers is NinjaTrader.  You can go to their
website, ninjatrader.com, to see a list of their brokerage partners which at
this time includes over sixty names.
The NinjaTrader software can plot a wide variety of chart types and time
frames and includes a long list of technical indicators.  One limitation of the
software is that the amount and quality of available data is limited by the
broker.  Most brokers do not offer more than a few days or weeks of
historical data, while others offer no historical tick data at all, severely
limiting the technical analyst’s ability to back test his trading ideas and
systems.  This problem can be obviated by the use of a third party data
provider such as CQG or Kinetic (which is owned by NinjaTrader).  In Figure
1 you can see a simple chart of the light crude oil Jan. 2014 futures contract
on a NinjaTrader chart.  A pair of exponential moving averages, Volume and
RSI were added to the chart.
Futures Trading Charts


--- Page 21 ---
Figure 1 - NinjaTrader
If your broker is TradeStation then you already have one of the most
powerful charting software packages available to individual customers. 
TradeStation was a charting software provider before it became a broker
and this shows in the depth and breadth of features supported by the
software.  Compared to other options it can be expensive although often
new customers can obtain good deals when signing up.  It provides all of
the flexibility and power in charting that NinjaTrader does, and you can see
an example in Figure 2.
Figure 2 - TradeStation


--- Page 22 ---
The TradeStation charting software can also be leased without a
TradeStation brokerage account however that becomes relatively
expensive.  You can find out more at tradestation.com.
Perhaps you don’t have a futures account yet and would simply like to learn
more about commodity futures price action.  In that case there are many
free resources out there.  You can start out by simply obtaining a demo
account at one of the NinjaTrader brokerage partners.  These accounts will
be of limited duration but will allow you to use the software and decide
whether commodities are for you.
The futures exchanges provide their own charting.  Compared to the
charting software available through your broker this charting is much more
limited and also is usually based on delayed data, typically delayed by 10 to
30 minutes.  Obviously because of the time delay these charts cannot be
used to make day trading decisions, however they can be quite adequate
for daily swing trading.  Probably the most comprehensive source of
commodities futures data and free charting is the CME website at
cmegroup.com.  Figure 3 lists some of the commodities data available
through this.
Figure 3 - CME Group Data
Charts are available for each of the futures listed in the CME site.  As
already stated, these charts use delayed data but otherwise can be quite
useful for technical analysis.  They come with a set of technical analysis
studies that can be customized.  Unfortunately these studies cannot be


--- Page 23 ---
combined and only one can be viewed at a time.  Figure 4 shows a typical
CME chart.
Figure 4 - CME Group Chart
The major internet portals (Yahoo, AOL, MSN, Google, etc.) each have their
own finance or investment area and may provide commodity futures
charts.  Yahoo has one of the better offerings as far as charting is
concerned.  Use finance.yahoo.com/futures as a starting point.  The charts
here also use delayed data, however unlike the CME charts you can
combine different technical indicators on the same chart.  Figure 5 shows a
sample chart from finance.yahoo.com.


--- Page 24 ---
Figure 5 - Yahoo Chart
Besides the portals there are other sites dedicated to providing free charts
including commodity futures charts.  One of the oldest and best is
Barchart.com.  Their charts are highly customizable and offer a large set of
technical indicators for application.  The data is delayed but they also offer
real time data for a price.  Figure 6 shows a sample Barchart.com chart.


--- Page 25 ---
Figure 6 - Barchart.com Chart
There are many more sites that you can explore, but the above should be
enough to get you started.  The key factor in deciding which commodity
futures charting solution is best for you is whether or not you already have
a futures trading account.  Start with your broker’s charting solution.  If it
does not meet your needs consider licensing a third party charting software
like NinjaTrader or eSignal and paying for a historical data feed. 
Alternatively you can always consider switching to a broker that has a
better charting package for you.  Regardless of your choice, good luck in
your commodity futures trading.
The rollover day for a Futures contract is one of the most misunderstood
features in trading these contracts.
Quite simply, Rollover Day is when traders start to exit the expiring contract
and begin trading the front month contract that expires some time in the
future.
As part of your job as a trader, you must understand when the contracts
expire and ensure you buy/sell out of the existing contract before the date
of expiration.
Liquidity And Rollover
The expiring contract can still be traded, as it is still available up to the
expiration day, but the liquidity will suffer and you are best advised, if you
want to continue in this position, to change to the new contract.
Liquidity: The degree to which an asset or security can be bought or sold in
the market without affecting the asset's price
This will avoid the problems associated with reduced trading volume which I
will highlight later in this article
The word "contract" when referring to the Futures market is an actual
contract complete with obligations for both the buyer and the seller.
The buyer agrees to take delivery, if trading in commodities such as cattle,
and the seller agrees to deliver the product.
Trading in financials, the Futures contracts would be settled in cash.
The fact is that for the majority of traders, actual delivery never takes place
How do Futures Contract
Rollover Days Work


--- Page 26 ---
as they are speculating on prices and not actually buying the product itself.
Futures Contract Rollover Days Can Differ
The instrument you are trading has a specific day that rollover occurs. All
instruments are not created equal though as some expire quarterly and
others expire monthly.
Some of the most popular e-mini contracts are the ES, Dow, and the Russell
and they are known as stock index instruments. These expire quarterly in
the months of March, June, September, and December on the third Friday of
the month at 9:30 EST.
Note: Each expiration month is represented by the following
letters: March (H), June (M), September (U), December (Z)
Let's use the ES for an example highlighting the March 2015 expiration:
ESH15
The March 2015 contract expires on March 20, 2015. The rollover to the
June Futures contract (ESM15) is 8 days before expiry which is March 12,
2015. This is when you want to monitor the volume in your market as many
traders begin to exit that current contract.
Most traders that I speak with will either change contracts on rollover or
will trade the front month the next day.
Another popular Futures instrument to trade
is Crude Oil or CL
Instead of a quarterly rollover, Crude Oil Futures rolls on a month to month
interval.
Keeping with March 2015, you'd be trading CLH15 but rolling over to the


--- Page 27 ---
April contract CLJ15 in the following manner:
1. Trading the current month CLH15 will stop on the third business day
prior to the 25 day of the month.
2. If the twenty-fifth calendar day of the month is a non-business day,
trading shall cease on the third business day prior to the last business
day preceding the twenty-fifth calendar day.
(http://is.gd/clcontract)
Ensure that for any Futures market you trade that you are fully educated on
the rollover particulars to avoid any issues with your trading positions.
EFFECTS OF ROLLOVER
You may have heard about difficulties with liquidity, and increased volatility
associated with rollover days. These result from the changeover that
happens. Most traders move from trading the current contract into the next
contract, and that means that the volume of the expiring contract becomes
less, usually resulting in larger spreads, and the trading volume for the next
period increases.
Volume: Total amount of futures contracts bought and sold during trading
day (other time frame)
Here we have a comparison of volume between the expiring month and the
front month.


--- Page 28 ---
You can see the gradual decline of volume plus the incline of volume in the
front month. If you are not paying attention to rollover, you may start
seeing its effects in terms of liquidity.
The increasing spreads on the expiring contract can be harmful to you if
you day-trade, and the new contract will usually have very tight spreads on
the rollover day. This is also important if you are a longer-term trader who
wants to carry the contract past the expiration date, as the small spreads
mean that you will pay the least to do the transfer.
If you are considering opening a position within a few days of rollover day,
then you may find it better to use the new contract at the start.
Don't Fear Contract Rollover
Futures Contract Rollover is not complex but it is something you should be
extremely aware of. While most markets rollover at the same time, as we


--- Page 29 ---
have seen with crude oil, there can be differences.
Just ensure you are checking the calendar and unless you are holding long
term positions, begin trading the front month contract when most of the
players change over.
Thanks for reading and you are welcome to download our free version of
Trend Jumper. A scaled down version of our most popular (and successful)
trading system to date!
Free Trend Jumper Trading System - Click Here
One big issue that I’ve found frequently comes up when talking to traders, is
when they are tracking market behavior they fail to differentiate between
primary sessions and overnight sessions for futures products. Now of
course,
it can be useful to chart a 24-hour or full electronic exchange session.
However, charting the right session times in futures for the primary session
of the market you are trading can go a long way towards figuring out what
it’s trying to do.
Why non-primary hours are different
Non-primary or “electronic” trading hours have two major differences to
the main session for an instrument. The first is that because a futures
product is a contract traded on an underlying market (for example a stock
index future on a basket of stocks), any trading going on in the future when
the underlying market is not fully open is going to be a proxy to the real
market. In other words, the trading that goes on in futures outside of
primary hours, isn’t always going to be an accurate reflection of what the
underlying market wants to do.
The second point is that the volume traded is generally much lower in the
electronic session than it is in the primary session. This tends to result in
either far tighter trading ranges when interest is lower or accentuated
moves due to the thinner book when there’s something that needs to be
priced in. Another really great example of this is in sessions where the
market is open but there’s a major holiday somewhere in the world. Many
times there’s very little movement, but sometimes the thinner market leads
to significant directional movement.
Masking the important activity
Choosing the Best Time to
Trade Futures


--- Page 30 ---
As a result of these differences, what you see on a full session chart has the
potential to mask important technical features of a market. Which moves
have happened as a result of changes in the price to the underlying market
for example, are likely to be far more indicative of future movement and yet
it might not be immediately clear which these are on a full session chart.
The actual volume traded is also likely to have an impact on your charts. If
you use volume profiles, although the additional less important data is far
smaller in comparison to the primary RTH data, it will still have an impact
on the overall distribution calculated by your platform.
But perhaps of greater impact is felt by traders who use either tick or
volume-based charts for their timeframe which in turn is used to generate
setups. Many trade plans used in Trend Jumper and Counterpunch use tick
charts for example. The result of using overnight data is that setups have
the potential to be artificially large due to the fact that markets can move
directionally on far fewer trades/less volume outside of their primary
sessions.
Additionally, it’s easier to identify session derived extremes in price, which
markets are likely to retest and respect in the future. Although it is possible
to find indicators on some platforms that allow you to specify the times for
the open/high/ low/close you wish to have automatically drawn based on,
it’s far more common to only have the option to show this for the current
session. Fortunately however, most platforms do allow you to change the
session displayed.
Selecting your session
Selecting the correct primary session is usually fairly straight forward. You
can look at the product’s exchange webpage where it often gives the pit or


--- Page 31 ---
open outcry session. You could also find the information for the primary
session by doing a web search on the primary market hours for the
underlying market. For example, the E-mini S&P 500 (ES) is a US stock index
product. The primary market hours for the NYSE are 9:30 am-4:00 pm EST
and so this is the primary session for the ES (although 9:30 am-4:15 pm EST
are frequently used).
When looking at Forex futures it’s not quite as straight forward. You could
chart sessions based on the hours of the major Forex centers globally (from
forexmarkethours.com):
But equally if you were to do a volume analysis on a product (I’ve used the
British Pound futures here) you might see that there’s a more relevant time
window to use that spans across several of these.
Charting the Right Session Times in Futures


--- Page 32 ---
Many traders still don’t differentiate between primary and non- primary
market sessions in futures trading and it’s my belief that they are missing a
trick with this. If you don’t already do so, why not at least take a look at
primary session only futures charts as a way to compliment your technical
analysis.
Trade well.
Below are other excellent free
trading and invesing guides.
Choose as many as you like with
our compliments today only:
Free Book:
Options Trading


--- Page 33 ---
One big issue that I’ve found frequently comes up when talking to traders, is
when they are tracking market behavior they fail to differentiate between
primary sessions and overnight sessions for futures products. Now of
course, it can be useful to chart a 24-hour or full electronic exchange
session. However, charting the right session times in futures for the primary
session of the market you are trading can go a long way towards figuring
out what it’s trying to do.
Why non-primary hours are different
Non-primary or “electronic” trading hours have two major differences to
the main session for an instrument. The first is that because a futures
product is a contract traded on an underlying market (for example a stock
index future on a basket of stocks), any trading going on in the future when
the underlying market is not fully open is going to be a proxy to the real
market. In other words, the trading that goes on in futures outside of
primary hours, isn’t always going to be an accurate reflection of what the
underlying market wants to do.
The second point is that the volume traded is generally much lower in the
electronic session than it is in the primary session. This tends to result in
either far tighter trading ranges when interest is lower or accentuated
moves due to the thinner book when there’s something that needs to be
priced in. Another really great example of this is in sessions where the
market is open but there’s a major holiday somewhere in the world. Many
Charting the Right Session
Times in Futures


--- Page 34 ---
times there’s very little movement, but sometimes the thinner market leads
to significant directional movement.
Masking the important activity
As a result of these differences, what you see on a full session chart has the
potential to mask important technical features of a market. Which moves
have happened as a result of changes in the price to the underlying market
for example, are likely to be far more indicative of future movement and yet
it might not be immediately clear which these are on a full session chart.
The actual volume traded is also likely to have an impact on your charts. If
you use volume profiles, although the additional less important data is far
smaller in comparison to the primary RTH data, it will still have an impact
on the overall distribution calculated by your platform.
But perhaps of greater impact is felt by traders who use either tick or
volume-based charts for their timeframe which in turn is used to generate
setups. Many trade plans used in Trend Jumper and Counterpunch use tick
charts for example. The result of using overnight data is that setups have
the potential to be artificially large due to the fact that markets can move
directionally on far fewer trades/less volume outside of their primary
sessions.
Additionally, it’s easier to identify session derived extremes in price, which
markets are likely to retest and respect in the future. Although it is possible
to find indicators on some platforms that allow you to specify the times for
the open/high/low/close you wish to have automatically drawn based on,
it’s far more common to only have the option to show this for the current
session. Fortunately however, most platforms do allow you to change the


--- Page 35 ---
session displayed.
Selecting your session
Selecting the correct primary session is usually fairly straight forward. You
can look at the product’s exchange webpage where it often gives the pit or
open outcry session. You could also find the information for the primary
session by doing a web search on the primary market hours for the
underlying market. For example, the E-mini S&P 500 (ES) is a US stock index
product. The primary market hours for the NYSE are 9:30 am-4:00 pm EST
and so this is the primary session for the ES (although 9:30 am-4:15 pm EST
are frequently used).
When looking at Forex futures it’s not quite as straight forward. You could
chart sessions based on the hours of the major Forex centers globally (from
forexmarkethours.com): -
But equally if you were to do a volume analysis on a product (I’ve used the
British Pound futures here) you might see that there’s a more relevant time
window to use that spans across several of these.


--- Page 36 ---
Charting the Right Session Times in Futures
Many traders still don’t differentiate between primary and non-primary
market sessions in futures trading and it’s my belief that they are missing a
trick with this. If you don’t already do so, why not at least take a look at
primary session only futures charts as a way to compliment your technical
analysis.
Trade well.
More posts by Coach James can be found here
 


--- Page 37 ---
Trading is a business and like many businesses, you need tools to help you
in your business. If you are a Futures trader, you have no doubt looked into
Futures trading software and wondered exactly what it is you require.
The trading software you will need will depend on what type of trader you
are. Swing traders may need different trading software than a scalper.
Assuming you have the basics such as the best trading platform and order
entry programs covered, I want to touch on a few pieces of software and
services you may find useful for not only Futures trading but any market or
instrument.
These are not endorsements but are gleaned from the many traders I speak
with on a weekly basis.
Data Feed For Futures Trading
If your trading strategies call for intra-day trading volatile markets such as
crude oil futures, you will want to ensure you are trading with an extremely
reliable data feed.
Futures trading software
for your trading business


--- Page 38 ---
While data is not futures trading software per se, without it, other
important trading software would be useless.
Kinetick- Many of the traders use the Ninja Trader trading charting
software for futures so this is no surprise. Quotes are not sacrificed for
unfiltered delivery speed so the price you are getting is straight from the
exchange. When trading fast markets, the last thing you want to worry
about is the quality and speed of your price quotes.
Their price point is in reason compared to other data companies. Data feed
is not a glamorous topic however speed, reliability and costing are variables
you should keep in mind.
Just as you turn on the light at home and expect a constant stream of
electricity, you should expect the same from you data provider.
On the topic of backtesting, ensure your data feed has enough historical
data to allow a large sample of market conditions to test. Kinetick offers
180 days of tick data, 2 years of minute data and 10+ years of daily data.
That may be enough to give you a solid glimpse into the viability of your
trading plan and system if you are interested in trading futures for a living.
Breaking News Software
What if your futures trading strategy relies on up to the minute news and
insights to help define a trade setup?
Yep, that’s right. Eurex have just announced the introduction of a new
product to their already successful futures lineup – the new Mini DAX
Futures.
On the rare occasions when an exchange releases a new contract of
genuine importance, there is always likely to be a degree of anticipation
and perhaps even some excitement. However, when a great product like the
DAX gets a new set of specs, things get really interesting.
Contract Specifications
So let’s not dally about. Let’s get straight to what the new contract specs
are.
The new Mini DAX Futures (FDXM) will be traded in 1 point tick increments
and be €5/point versus the full DAX Futures (FDAX) which is traded in 1/2
point tick increments and is €25/point or €12.50/tick. They will be listed in
the same quarterly cycle, roll at the same time and also be cash settled.
At this point, I do not know what the round trip cost of the new contract will
be, but given the way the DAX moves, it’s unlikely to be too much of a
sticking point even if it’s the same as the big DAX contract. I’d love it if the
cost of an RT was 50% or lower, but realistically I’m not sure that this is
likely to be the case. We shall see. I will update this post when I know more.
The New Mini DAX Futures


--- Page 39 ---
How about software that allows you to monitor and analyze many different
securities at once?
One very powerful piece of future trading software for traders is:
Bloomberg Terminal- A trader I know that trades for a fund said he would
not turn on the charts until Bloomberg was fired up. That is how important
this trading software is to his business.
Global coverage is their hallmark and while they produce their own content,
they have 1000+ other news sources plus the ability to harness the power of
social media for instant and in the moment news broadcasting.
We've all seen how a misplaced word from a govt leader can affect the
market to the tune of 400 points in a hearbeat. Fast delivery of news
content for those whose futures trading strategies rely on news and errant
spikes to be effective is vital.
Economic releases can shake the market and having the important releases
front and center and the results of the release can be an exceptional asset
to certain types of traders. I personally know a trader who will only start
trading when a highly volatile releases such as NFP (Non-Farm Payroll)
occur.
You can imagine that having up to the second information on these events
is part of his trading edge.
Tracking the main markets such as Dow, S&P, NASDAQ, and even gold
futures can help traders have a birds eye view on the risk on/off situation
for the trading day.
It does come with a cost and this type of software for futures trading may
be out of your reach. There are many benefits to the investment that will all
Who Cares?
Well you might think that taking a big contract and making it much smaller
is a bit of a waste of time. But the truth of it is just the opposite.
A single full DAX Futures contract has a notional value of €25 x 10,000
(point value times by the current price, give or take) = €250,000 and as
recently as April this year, it was getting towards €312,500!! So if you need
to hedge a long-term cash market position for example, it’s tough to do so
on such a large product. So ETF’s might be the way you’d go instead.
Then of course there are the smaller guys like day traders. The DAX is a
great market but just moves so much and is already expensive per tick. It’s
not rare for it to move 300 points in a day – that’s €7,500 per contract in
range!! Some days it will move 500 points.
For a day trader with a smaller account who wanted to trade the DAX, one
of the few options available was to trade a DAX future CFD (note: DAX
index CFD which many brokers offer, is not the same thing). But this hasn’t
been available to traders in all countries and has inherent risks such as it
not being a centralized exchange regulated market.
Hedgers or day traders are just a couple of examples of participants who
are likely to be interested in the new Mini DAX Futures. If it works, it is going
to be more liquid, slightly slower and it will be easier to accurately manage
risk on positions.
Will it Even Work?
But will it even work? There are plenty of products that are launched and
fail. Indeed there was a mini-sized US dollar-denominated DAX introduced
by the now defunct USFE exchange back in ’08. This product unfortunately
went the way of the dodo for various reasons which I won’t get into right
now.


--- Page 40 ---
depend on your goals and how much overhead you want to have.
Trading Automation Software
Automated Futures Trading Software - Whether you are trading oil futures
or your business is e-mini futures trading, this type of software can do much
of the heavy lifting for you.
If you have done any
trading at all, you know the battle you have with your trading emotions.
Paper trading (demo trading) can sometimes give you an insight of the
greed/fear emotions but nothing takes the place of live trading with actual
money on the line.
ANY_CHARACTERS_HERE
Automated trading software can do everything from locating and triggering
trades to trailing and exiting your positions.
ANY_CHARACTERS_HERE
There are two huge benefits to this type of software:
1. No emotional trading - It's a mechanical strategy that has been tested
out over time. When variables line up, the trade is triggered regardless of
your personal bias. If you were starting at your trading charts, you may
find reasons to sit out "this trade". You may decide to lighten up the
position.That brings me to the Turtle Traders and the heating oil
example. Only 1 trader, Curtis Faith, followed the trade plan and reaped
a windfall for his mentors. The others found reasons to not follow the
plan and paid a hefty price for doing so.Objective trading at its finest is
what this type of trading software can do for you.
2. Have a life outside of trading - Unlike the standard approach to futures
trading, you don't have to be glued to your computer screen out of fear
of missing a trade. Since markets are basically in play 24 hrs a day, your
prime setup may occur while you are on vacation or sleeping. Automated
software is online around the clock ready to execute your backtested
and proven trading plan.
This is just some of the trading software that is available for those
Then of course there was the E-mini S&P 500 Futures. It was introduced by
the CME in the late 90’s and was initially 1/10th the value of the big S&P
contract (which itself was later halved).
It was also listed with a quarter point tick increment instead of the one
tenth of a point tick increment which the full contract had.
People laughed at it.
I really don’t believe there’s any more I need to say about the E-mini S&P
500 Futures!
Eurex is a solid exchange and has been about since the beginning of
screen-based futures trading. They have done their homework on the Mini
DAX Futures. In fact, there’s been talk of a mini DAX for a good few years
now. And there’s a genuine need for it too, as we see higher prices and
greater market volatility.
The Mini DAX Futures are very likely to succeed and be a big hit.
What to Expect
Eurex have announced that the Mini DAX Futures will be available from 28
October 2015 in addition to the existing FDAX.
The trouble is whether or not people will initially trade them. Whilst it
remains to be seen just how liquid they will initially be, even if the daily
volume levels are relatively low there should be reasonable liquidity due to
the designated market maker schemes they will be running until at least the
end of March 2016. Market makers will have the obligation to quote.
If you’re going to trade it, I would strongly suggest just watching it and not
trading it for at least a couple of weeks to begin with.


--- Page 41 ---
interested in trading futures. Software also comes with different qualities
and price ranges so ensure what you are using is aiding your trading...not
hindering it.
Even those that make their living currency trading online can benefit from
employing a strong data feed, news wire and automated trading programs.
For those traders that love the "thrill" of day trading, they can still utilize
the automation in regards to trade management or even locating and
entering swing/position trades. Anything that helps us stick to our trade
plans and protect our trading accounts is always worth consideration.
The fact is that it’s a new contract and although the liquidity might look to
be reasonable, it might not always behave as you expect. Plus you can’t be
certain that there won’t be any teething problems given the fact that it’s a
brand new product.
I’d also suggest you chart the full product too. If you’re a Netpicks owner
(such as Trend Jumper or Counter Punch), your trade plan will be tested on
the full product and more than likely be using tick or volume (share) bars.
Given the vast difference in contract specs, setups won’t be what they
should. So chart the FDAX and (if you choose to) trade the FDXM.
Let's see where the new Mini DAX Futures take us and just maybe they'll
bring some great opportunities to those who trade them!
Trade well.
More posts by Coach James can be found here
 


--- Page 42 ---
No one trade is ever quite the same. But there are similarities between
them and by learning trade management lessons from each trade we take,
we can improve the way we manage future trades.
Let’s take a look at an example of a FTSE futures trade using Trend Jumper,
which occurred in the EU Trade Room session…
If you’d like to see it first, here is the video: -
https://youtu.be/JsPFCzuDIUc
Market Open & Potential Energy
The opening position is always important. It tells us how much “potential
energy” the market has.
The basic key elements to note are: -
Where the market is opening relative to yesterday’s range
Where the market is opening relative to yesterday’s cash and full
session close
The reason for this is to identify the level of change between yesterday’s
perception of value and today’s initial idea of value.
For example, opening near the close and the middle of the range, might
Trade Management
Lessons from the FTSE
Futures


--- Page 43 ---
show no change in perception of value and therefore no urgency from the
market. On the other hand, a move away from these could suggest either a
change and perhaps a directional continuation or a rejection of the
movement and the onset of responsive activity to bring the market back to
where it was yesterday.
In the example, the FTSE opened up inside but towards the top of the prior
day’s range. It also opened very close to the prior day’s European cash
session closing price.
Now the opening position wasn’t predicting huge amounts of early
potential. But if you take into account that the prior day was a breakout
day of a 3-day balance area, it’s should be clear that there’s still some
exploration of value to be done – especially early on in the session.


--- Page 44 ---
So it’s important to take into account some slightly broader auction context
than just the opening position relative to yesterday’s range and close.
Doing so should have suggested to a trader that there was decent potential
for an early directional move.
Early Tests
The FTSE futures then went on to test up and test down (to the prior day’s
cash close) to form an opening balance range which held for several
minutes.


--- Page 45 ---
Market participants weren’t going “all in” right off the bar, but bearing in
mind the potential energy, a breakout from this balance could see a
directional move take hold.
As the FTSE started to move above the balance high, Trend Jumper gave us
a Jump Line Crossover long setup – right on cue!
The logic that I apply to whether the trade fits or not with market structure,
is based on whether I can at least get to the money management target
(T1) without the need to break the nearest level of any significance. In this
case, you can see that you could get that as well as your fixed scale-out


--- Page 46 ---
(T2).
The trade was taken for 2 contracts and the market moved up to T1 fairly
easily.
Now, I hear you ask why did I sacrifice 2 ticks on the fixed target here when
it rolled on straight to T2?!
2 points.
First point - Your scale is risk management gold
Once you take half your position off (in this case), the breakeven for the
entire trade moves dramatically away from the current price. Even the
6.5pts taken at 5934.5 here changes the breakeven price from 5928.0 (the
original entry price) to 5921.5 – i.e. 13pts from the current price!
Second point – A historical chart rarely fully reflects the actual flow of the
market observed at the time
Get the free version of the Trend Jumper system I use
in this example: -
Free Trend Jumper
Trading System - Click Here
The conditions for taking a trade off when it’s short of its target, are that: -


--- Page 47 ---
It gets close to the target (to within 1 – a handful of ticks depending on
the product you are trading)
The target is at or close to a key level (this should be used at a trader’s
discretion)
The market is showing signs of support or resistance as it moves to the
target price.
You don’t see it in the chart, but close to T2 and a key zone, it did show
something of a pause – and when a market reverses here, as it’s a key zone
and the competition to get in or out of a position will be greater, there’s
often not much time to react.
So you either take what you can with the possibility of the market
continuing anyway or you hold tight for an extra couple of ticks.
Because of the risk management implications, I always work on the basis of
the first option – taking it off with the risk of missing out on a couple of
extra ticks, but guaranteeing my breakeven price moving very favorably in
the process.
How to Trail
In some cases I trail the Jump Line 9 (JL9) and in other I trail the Jump Line
4 (JL4). This is based largely on how much of a move has already occurred,
whether a key price level has already been tested, how much potential for a
continuation move I think there is and how big the gap between the JL9 and
the JL4 is.
I also often switch between the two mid-trade. This is because as the
market moves further, I want to give it more room.
Whatever scheme I’m using, I always want to work within the current
market structure. So in the FTSE trade example, when T1 is hit, I wouldn’t
normally lock in at entry +1 tick. I’d move it to a couple of ticks below the
breakout point (location #1 on the chart). As it happened, I was able to trail
the JL4 soon after.


--- Page 48 ---
The FTSE did then continue past the first key price target and before it
reached the second, some 2-way trading halted the advance.
The question was whether to trail the JL4, JL9 or market structure.
Given that the market had moved a decent amount, the JL9 was now
becoming more appealing, but it had to fit with market structure. As you
can see, the trade stopped out anyway and the extra room given to it cost
3.5pts. But the potential for a further move up was high.
Unfortunately, and this is just part of the game (so long as it doesn’t
happen on every trade!), the stop-out was the low of that swing and the
market did continue on to test close to the upper key price level (5961.5).
Takeaway Points


--- Page 49 ---
Whilst you can’t get trade management on every single trade you take
100% perfect, actively managing trades like this can help increase your
bottom line. It can also improve the consistency of results and give you a
more valid reason to exit a trade when it’s moving against your position.
Active trade management techniques like the ones used in this example,
aren’t easy to use to begin with. But with practice, they do become much
easier and even second nature. If this is something you’re interested in, I
suggest you start off by back-testing it and then by assessing how each
trade you take would have turned out using these methods.
 
Trade well.
More posts by Coach James can be found here
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
Online Futures Trading
NEXT ARTICLE:
Crude Oil Trade Basics
Gain futures have some very unique properties that make them very good
to day trade.  However, many people don’t understand the market or are so
locked into the typical markets that they are familiar with.  For example,
everyone seems to want to trade The ES or S & P Emini or the NQ (Nasdaq)
or YM (Dow).  This is because they hear and see about how it does each
day.   The nightly news tells you if the DOW went down 100 points or that
the S&P gained 1 %.  You don’t hear how much Corn, or Soybeans or Wheat
when up, unless it is dealing with a related story about food costs going up
because the Grain prices are going up.
How are grain futures trades?  They are traded almost exactly like all of
those other futures I mentioned and that you are familiar with.  They are
traded on the same Exchange the CME out of Chicago.  They are traded in
5,000 bushels and move in ¼ tick increments at $12.5 a tick.  This price
Learn How to Trade Grain
Futures


--- Page 50 ---
action is exactly the same as the ES.  One contract per point (4 ticks) is
worth $50.  So, you see it can be traded just like a market that you are
familiar with.  However, there are some major differences in how it trades
that make it very nice for the retail trader.  These are some of the key
differences.
1.  The Market does not respond to the typical US market news like a Jobs
report or the Fed statement.  This means that it is not correlated with the
US market and so you can trade it and not worry about someone giving
a speech or many of the news events that move the US market up or
down.
2. Diversified markets.  You can trade Corn, Soybeans or Wheat.  You can
pick the best one that is giving you the best trading signals.  They trade
differently and respond more to weather news or crop reports.  So, you
want to get educated on the market you are looking to trade and know
which contract month to trade.
3. Trading hours.  They use to start trading at 0830 CST and end about
2:00 CST.  However, now with electronic trading.  They trade from 5 PM
CST to 2 PM.  They still have the big surge of traders at the old “Pit
Open” at 0830 CST, but now the market is only closed for about 3 hours
in the afternoon and they are open all night and all morning.
I talked about getting to know your market.  Everything you need to know
about the market and volume and current contracts are on the CME site. 
www.cmegroup.com   Look at the chart above from the CME site and you
can see that Corn is trading the March 2014 contract and the volume is
about 55,000.  This way you know the exact symbol to use for each market
and then the current month with the most volume.
You will also want to pay attention to some of the Agriculture news, unlike
the standard US market or world news.  Often the market will start a nice
trend, based upon expect crop reports or if there are some major storms
that might affect the harvest of various crops.  That is one of the very nice
things about Grains.  They trend very well and move in large waves.  This is
a good site for news on Crop reports and Harvest reports.  www.agweb.com


--- Page 51 ---
So, take a look at a market that gives you great diversification, non
correlated with US markets, and one that trends better than many of the
standard US Markets.  It is easy to trade and with a little bit of education
on the market.  I think you will find that you can make a great living just
trading the Grains.
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
Online Futures Trading
NEXT ARTICLE:
Crude Oil Trade Basics


--- Page 52 ---
Crude oil futures are one of my favorite day trade markets to trade.
For years now, it has offered enormous profit opportunity due to its highly
active price action and range.
As dynamic as this market is, there are aspects that are important to be
aware of if you want to succeed at crude oil futures trading.
Crude oil futures, and more specifically, ‘light sweet crude oil futures’ are
traded on the NYMEX Exchange (New York Mercantile exchange).  The
trade pit opens at 9 am est and trades until 2:30 pm, but there is also a very
active electronic market which trades on globex from 6 pm est, Sunday
through Friday.
Like all major commodities futures contracts, crude oil futures contracts
are standardized. 
The front month contract is what we want to focus on because that is
where the majority of the volume is.
Each contract consists of 1,000 barrels.
The prices move in 1 tick increments.
Each tick is equal to .01, or one cent, US.
Crude Oil Futures Trading
Basics


--- Page 53 ---
Therefore the value of each tick is $10, making very small moves in price
a very lucrative and/or risky proposition.
For example, if one were to trade a single contract of crude oil futures that
moves just .10 in price, $100 would be made or lost, plus trade costs
(commission, exchange fees and slippage).
 
Crude Oil Contract Rollover
Each month, around the 18th, or the closest Friday to the 18th, we typically
‘roll’ to the next front month contract.
During the Thursday and Friday around these monthly dates, you will notice
the trade volume begins to migrate from the old month to the new.
We always want to focus our trading on the contract with the most trade
volume.
There are also mini contracts of crude oil futures traded on the CME.
At first appearance, you might be drawn to these because they require
much smaller capital levels to safely trade.
The only problem is that most traders have not really taken to these smaller
contracts and the trade volume is just not sufficient for us to attempt
trading these products.
Focus on the full size NYMEX contract for better
trading.
I have personally called live trades in a virtual trade room for many years
and crude oil futures has been one of the best, most consistently active
markets that I have focused on throughout my trade room experience. 
Because of this price action, we can look forward to lots of great trade
opportunities.
 
How To Trade Crude Oil Futures


--- Page 54 ---
All the best strategies that I have found the most success with, are rule
based methods that tend to focus on momentum style trade setups, or
reversal trades.
They are very controlled, with specific targets, entries and stops.
For me, the best strategies utilize multiple positions and for that,  you do
have to be adequately capitalized.  If not, then begin with a single position
and trade it to a specific target.
With two positions, which is my preferred method, I like to exit at a specific
target with one position, and then trail the 2nd position per my trade plan
rules and techniques.
I also like to move my stop to lock in a little profit or to eliminate the risk on
the trade as quickly as possible, also per the rules and techniques of my
trade plan.
Your tradeplan should also be quite specific as to when to start each
session and when to quit.  This is the kind of market that you probably do
not want to over trade.
My Personal Trading Plan Is As Follows
I begin at 8:50 am each session.
My quitting goals are dynamic and typically require one or two winning
trades and a positive result.
If the session begins with losses, then we have to keep trading until we get
positive or, until we reach a designated stopping time.
Many traders have a hard time knowing when to stop trading and that
usually leads to problems.  Each trader is different, and typically requires
personalized rules to accommodate them so figuring out the proper
quitting time requires some initial research.
Some traders only trade for 30 minutes and 3 trades maximum for
example, while others will just power through the entire session or until they
hit their winning goals.
Still others, and this is something I would suggest one focuses on, will


--- Page 55 ---
research by back testing, all the trades that their strategy produces
throughout several months of trading, and then isolate the most productive
and least productive windows of time.
An interesting trade plan can then be applied that treats each session as 2
to 4 mini sessions, each with its own start and stop time, only focusing on
what has been historically shown to be the most productive time slots to
trade crude with their specific trade method.
I personally like using the PTU Trend Jumper strategy which has a very
specific approach to this market.  It’s the perfect strategy to set up mini
sessions because it produces excellent setups.
When you combine these setups with smart trade plan rules, you can
consistently produce profitable results.
 
Vital Key To Any Trade Strategy
There are other effective strategies too, but regardless of the strategy, I
have found the most consistent success by trading it the same way each
and every session, with a purely mechanical approach.
In other words, there is very little room for discretionary trading. 
I’m not saying one couldn’t be successful trading crude oil futures by ‘touch
and feel.’  I just haven’t known anyone that has succeeded at it.
This market offers up the same type of price action and price patterns over
and over again so, armed with that information, I prefer to use a rule based
mechanical strategy that takes advantage of that and in so doing, puts the
odds in my favor on each and every setup.
Winning at futures trading is all about odds.
There is no such thing as perfection.
The good news is, we don’t need perfection to
succeed.
We just need to put the house odds on our side.  The strategies we use give


--- Page 56 ---
us ‘better than house odds,’ in fact.
I don’t need to win every trade to make a lot of money trading crude oil
futures.
Winning every trade isn’t possible anyway.
So I focus on quitting positive on most sessions and staying consistent with
my approach.  As long as your strategy offers up a positive average profit
per trade, net of all winners and losers, you can be successful trading crude
oil.
Of course, you also need to couple that up with very smart and conservative
risk exposure and money management.  In other words, you have to be
adequately capitalized to trade crude oil futures.
You never want to risk more than 2% over your trade capital on any given
trade and you should apply the philosophical concept that less is more.
Focus on quality of the trading opportunity and not
quantity.
Give you plan a chance to produce for you.  By letting the odds do all the
heavy lifting for you, your account will ultimately ‘ramp up,’ and as it does,
you can increase your position size while still sticking to the quality vs
quantity concept.
Those that over trade, that is, trade for quantity, tend to have lower net
profit results per trade or worse, can’t find a way to quit positive on most
sessions.  They give their profits back to the market as they keep pushing
the buttons and entering order after order.
Just like the gambler who overstays his welcome at the blackjack tables. 
You don’t want to be a gambler.  You want to be a smart business
man/woman who has pre-calculated the risks and knows when to walk
away each session.
 
What Variables Go Into Successful Crude Oil
Trading


--- Page 57 ---
There are the elements that are required to succeed at crude oil futures
trading
Method
Tradeplan and rules
Quality vs. quantity
Smart risk and money management
Discipline to execute the plan, each and every session
Research and knowledge of what to expect from the tradeplan – this is
critical to success!
Adequate capitalization
Don't forget about the news releases.
Another important aspect to crude oil trading is the weekly Inventory
Report that comes out every Wednesday or Thursdays on holiday shortened
trade weeks.  On Wednesday, it is released at 10:30 am.
If it is a holiday week, then expect its release on Thursday at 11:00.
Make sure to not try to execute new trades around this report. 
We typically stop taking trades 5 minutes before the release.  More
conservative traders will even go flat and close out positions that happen to
still be open prior to the report.
The problem with trying to execute trades through this report is that it will
produce wild volatility and liquidity momentarily dries up at many price
points.  In other words, the price will hit your targets but you won’t get filled
until some other unpredictable price level is reached.
In short, you lose control of your trade!  That is never
good!
While trading through the report is not the wisest thing to do, I like treating
the after report trading as an entirely different trade session; almost like a
6th session each week, with its own start times and quitting goals.  I like to
begin looking for trades a fast 2 minutes after the release.  I will typically
trade for one good winner and then I’ll quit for the session.  Some traders
like to wait 5 minutes.
 


--- Page 58 ---
Crude Oil Trading Can Be Lucrative
Crude oil futures is one of the most dynamic and lucrative day trading
markets there is.  It is critical though that you do a lot of preliminary
research before risking real money.
It is wise to back test your intended approach in a pre-programmed
spreadsheet so that you can see what your chosen trade plan has produced
in the past.  Then continue testing it forward in real time, while practicing it
in a simulation account.
You want to establish a positive expectancy (average net profit per trade)
as well as a plan that wins on most sessions and has a strong weekly win
rate as well.  I use a spreadsheet called the UTA (Ultimate Trade Analyzer)
to track all my live trades and to back test each and every market, method
and trade plan prior to risking real money.
Any trader can learn how to trade crude oil futures.  Just make sure you
respect the risk and realize that you have to treat this as a very serious and
professional endeavor.
Treat it like a business and approach it with the same due diligence that
you would apply to any business opportunity.  With opportunity comes risk
so you have to manage the risk exposure with intention and eyes wide
open.
Free Trend Jumper
Trading System - Click Here


--- Page 59 ---
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
Crude Oil Trade Basics
NEXT ARTICLE:
Automated Futures Trading Systems
View Our Futures Trading Video
Live Crude Oil Futures Trades With Trend Jumper
Crude light (CL) is a fantastic product to day trade. It has great liquidity and
you soon know whether you’re right or wrong in a trade as it moves quite a
bit. Because of this it’s one of those highly profitable products that
discipline is a must to trade it. It’s a fast moving market and at $10 a tick,
you can see relatively large p/l swings just trading a single contract.
SOME BASIC STATS
Whilst trading CL on the CME Globex is actually open for nearly 24 hours a
day during the week (6:00pm – 5:15pm EST) the primary pit session is just
5½ hours long (9:00am to 2:30pm EST). Focusing on the latter, you
Day Trading Crude Oil
Futures Explained


--- Page 60 ---
generally get somewhere in the region of 100-250 ticks in range and 100-
250k contracts traded and frequently it can be considerably more active.
This is for the closest contract to expiration before contract roll (trading
volume tips over into next contract month). Crude trades monthly contracts
and in fact many traders look to profit from spreading different contract
months against each other, looking to profit from changing expectations of
the value of the commodity over time. It’s important to know when to roll
into the new front month as crude oil is a future that is settled by delivery –
if you’re long and you let the future expire on you, an oil tanker will show
up!
Volatility in fact varies not only from week to week and month to month,
but is also dependent on the day of the week. Volume tends to pick up
throughout the week and volatility is usually elevated around the weekly
crude oil inventory report on Wednesdays. In fact, this report has the
potential to whip the market back and forth so dramatically that many oil
traders step back for a few minutes to let the dust settle before taking
further trades.
 
Would you like to Receive the Seven Secrets to Crude Oil Trading Success?
 Grab It Here for Immediate Download - Crude Oil Futures Success
 
 
PRICE DRIVERS
But it’s not just inventories that move oil prices. Crude oil can see good
trends in part due to speculation. Indeed when oil spiked to record highs in
2008, speculators were blamed for pushing prices higher. Whilst it is


--- Page 61 ---
certainly a speculator driven market to an extent, there are other factors to
take into account.
Same goes for the plummet in 2014 and 2015.
From a demand aspect, the impact of the level of growth in countries such
as China, India and Brazil must be considered. The better the global
economy, the greater the demand from these countries will be. This is also
why oil tends to move in tandem with the stock market. But there comes a
point where higher prices become seen as a hindrance to growth. It’s also
important to assess the way the value of the dollar impacts oil prices.
Crude oil is priced in dollars and it has an intrinsic value. So any strength or
weakness in the dollar has the potential to inversely affect oil prices - i.e. if
you want to buy something but your money is worth less, the cost in terms
of your money goes up. And this goes for inflation too.
Over time as currency devalues, anything with intrinsic value should rise in
price in terms of the currency. So the varying degree of inflation (or
deflation) will impact oil prices too. Then of course comes the issue of global
tensions and particularly those in the Middle East.
The simple fact is that the world is dependent on oil and a vast amount of it


--- Page 62 ---
comes from this highly volatile region. Any conflict that hints at the possible
disruption to crude oil supply can quickly send prices higher.
Why do you need to know this information to day trade crude then?
Because economic reports also affect oil prices and when an important
figure is released out of line (differing from analyst pre-release estimates),
markets must reprice to account for this. Middle East tensions might be
ongoing, but there are specific points in time when important developments
take place and the market moves quickly.
Crude oil is a great market to trade as a day trader. Because the market
has a good number of influences driving price and because when a lot of
business needs to be done the level of liquidity can move the market
quickly, crude oil is a market where there’s lots of action for a day trader to
profit from.
If you’d like to learn more about day trading crude oil futures and pick up a
few tips, why not take a look at Seven Secrets to Crude Oil Futures Trading
Success by Mark Soberman, the founder of NetPicks.com.
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
Crude Oil Trade Basics
NEXT ARTICLE:
Automated Futures Trading Systems


--- Page 63 ---
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
Currency Day Trading
You might have heard of a popular market called the E-mini S&P 500, aka
the ES. But this market remains a mystery to many people – and not just
beginners.
WHAT IS THE ES ANYWAY?
The ES is a futures contract on the S&P 500 cash market. The S&P 500 is an
index of 500 large cap stocks in the US. It is made up of individual stocks
from all the main industry sectors – from energy, financial, health care to
industrial stocks and many more, the S&P 500 covers the lot! The ES is a
futures market that has four quarterly expiry contracts per year, trades in
quarter points and each quarter point, or tick is worth $12.50.
YOU’LL PROBABLY THINK YOU LOVE IT THEN WANT TO HATE IT
Many beginners are drawn to the ES because of its great liquidity, low
intraday margins and daily ranges that are about right – not too crazy to
start out trading, but also it still has a pulse. But then they start to trade it
and begin to hate it. “It never just goes!!” or “It always stops me out to the
tick before heading to my target!!” you’ll hear them cry. And these views
aren’t without merit at all. Because the S&P 500 is an aggregated product –
i.e. it’s made up of lots of other products (the stocks) – its movements are
muddied and an average of all the stocks that make it up. This feeds
straight into the ES. The ES is a mean-reverting product. It likes to trade
back on itself. It likes to check and recheck levels. And it can be hellishly
stubborn at times when it does trend. So the kinds of psychological
torments that traders and especially new traders go through are often
amplified by the ES. If you’re stubborn in nature, you’ll likely get torn to
shreds.
Day Trading eMini & S&P
500 Futures


--- Page 64 ---
THE MARKET THAT LOVES CONTEXT
The product is just like any other you might choose to trade – find your
niche and you’ll make a lot of money. One thing that this market loves is
context. It loves to see levels or a trendlines tested and fail for example. It
loves to see yesterday’s high broken briefly then fall back below. It loves to
know that more buyers didn’t enter when that high broke, so that sellers
can confidently step it up. No new buyers above high = trapped longs =
opportunity to profit from trapped longs liquidating. True it’s an art as
much as a science to knowing when to pull the trigger in scenarios like this
and when to lay off as things aren’t quite right. You’ve also got to have a
good handle on what the ES is viewing as technical levels as you’ll be able
to better control your risk by knowing where to enter as much as knowing
when you have your cue. Once you know which direction you have your cue
in, you could trade it with a something like the PTU Trend Jumper for
example.
IT WOULD TRY THE PATIENCE OF A SAINT
According to my googling, there is apparently no genuinely designated
patron saint of patience. Shame. But if there was, the ES would surely try
the patience of said saint and certainly of all the rest. The fact is that
because most of the time, given its aggregated mean-reverting nature, the
ES undulates back and forth looking for buyers and sellers. When you’re
wrong it makes you think you’re right and when you’re right you know to
your core that you’re wrong. And then you see what actually happens after
you exit the trade. It’s a tricky little fellow the ES and so having a well
thought out trading plan that you religiously stick to through thick and thin
will likely serve you better than any gut instinct you have whilst you’re in a
trade. You must yield to the trading (and trade plan) gods and have the
patience to see the trade through whatever the outcome may be.
The ES is just another market. So don’t love it or hate it – use it if it fits the
type of strategy you like to trade. At the end of the day, while those reasons
why beginners first start trading it still hold true, the ES is a fantastic
product to trade and it is very possible to make considerable amounts of
money with it.
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
Currency Day Trading


--- Page 65 ---
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
How to Trade Futures?
NEXT ARTICLE:
Futures Trading Strategies
Trading futures online has become more and more popular in recent years
and although the standards available to the internet retail trader have
dramatically increased in this time, there are still potential pitfalls.
Additionally there are many considerations that a trader must make that
many have had to learn by experience alone. Here are some of them to give
you a head start.
Brokers
If you want to trade futures you’ll need an Introducing Broker (IB) or a
Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) (and a clearer), in order to trade. A
broker is really just the middleman but in some cases the services that they
offer do justify the slightly higher commission rates that they tend to
charge. When you setup your account with an IB, you’ll also have to fill out
forms for a clearer too.
Trading and Charting Platforms
There are many different charting and trading platforms out there that
offer a plethora of features to the modern trader. More and more it’s
commonplace to see a combination of the two. Some are built for
functionality, some are built for speed, some are built for reliability and
some are built for cost. Some cost a lot of money, some are more
reasonable and some are offered ‘free’ (though generally there’s a levy on
commissions for no cost platforms). It’s also important to note that many
vendors (software and data) who charge for their products do give a
discount for services paid for in advance (normally up to a max of 1 year).
But it’s really important that you think very carefully about what exactly it is
Learn To Trade Futures


--- Page 66 ---
that you require for your style of trading.
Data
Not all data is made equal. The issue that data providers have is that the
greater the amount of data and the higher the accuracy of this data, the
higher the overhead on their servers and the greater the bandwidth
required to deliver this data is. So you tend to get two different types of
data. The first is typically a “broker feed” which is the data your broker
provides in order for you to trade. This can often be filtered (meaning you
won’t actually see every trade) as the most important factor is that it keeps
up with live prices. It typically won’t provide you with much historical data
and often won’t be especially accurate (although in some cases these feeds
are dramatically improving). The second type is a pure data vendor. These
types of data feed tend to give you much more historical data and be more
accurate (although this is variable in extent). Your charting platform must
support your chosen feed whichever way you go and you must have a feed
with order routing if you intend to trade through it.
Trading PC & Internet Connection
People often think it’s a good idea to fire up their family pc and internet
connection to trade with. But this isn’t necessarily a great idea I’m afraid.
The chances are you’ll have many programs installed and a cluttered up
operating system. Your internet connection might not be the best either.
And the truth is that latency is an internet-based retail trader’s nemesis. If
the market is moving faster than your trading platform can keep up, you
could end up making trading decisions that are costly ones. Traders can
also run strategy orders with some software, where their platform
generates orders based on market data and for many platforms these
orders are generated client side – meaning trades are placed based on the
data coming into your PC. If this data is lagging behind the market to a
great extent then you could have a problem.
What can go wrong will go wrong
It’s not just latency that’s a concern though. You need to have a plan for
what you’ll do if your PC fails you. Then what would you do if your internet
connection goes down in the middle of a trade? How will you handle a
power outage during the trading session? Then there’s also the possibility
that your data provider has outages. Market volatility can massively spike


--- Page 67 ---
causing latency issues for your platform. There are so many things that can
go wrong with trading online and as you trade more you’ll inevitably come
across these issues from time to time.
Self-Starting and Taking Responsibility
Trading futures involves a high degree of risk and this is perhaps even more
relevant when trading futures online. Trading online means you need to
have strong motivation and be a self-starter as there are many things you
need to do in order to give yourself the best chance of success in this
business. Taking responsibility for your trading decisions is a really
important factor that when you’re trading in this isolated way, can seem
like a difficult task. But it’s also important to take responsibility for
situations like for example where your internet goes down in the middle of a
trade. If you haven’t planned for this possibility and don’t have a backup
connection or the number for the trading desk at your broker, then any loss
because you couldn’t access your platform is down to you and you alone.
Online futures trading is a booming business. Many firms offer access to
exchanges and futures products throughout the world. The level of
sophistication of the products on offer is rapidly improving and the standard
of internet connectivity available to a retail customer far exceeds what it
once was. If you’re a day trader, futures are a fantastic way to trade and
it’s an industry which is ever-evolving. If you’re interested in futures trading,
take a look at some of the ways you can trade them with Netpicks.
PREVIOUS ARTICLE:
How to Trade Futures?
NEXT ARTICLE:
Futures Trading Strategies


--- Page 68 ---
Many traders I come across seem to start off by trying to day trade stocks
or Forex and for many years this concept was pretty alien to me.
If you want to be an active day trader, futures are really the way to go. But
to some, the world of futures trading is a dangerous business – a world
where fast money and blown up accounts often go hand-in-hand.
The simple fact is that this is not an unusual reality in the industry. But
there’s another reality for those who understand the risks involved and
maintain appropriate safeguards: trading futures markets is one of the
most efficient ways to use your capital.
 
LEVERAGE In The Futures Market
Leverage certainly has the potential to be a case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
I don’t think it’s too hard to find horror stories of traders being over-
leveraged and blowing up their accounts. It’s not uncommon for a trader
who has taken a few “bad beats” to go “on tilt”, trade erratically and
double up (or perhaps worse) on their losing positions.
Futures Trading Systems


--- Page 69 ---
But even without this very real aspect of trading, many traders just don’t
realise what the odds of them having a sustained period of draw down are
and so they are less likely to fully appreciate the need to address how much
capital they should risk over how much capital they can risk.
Let’s look at some figures to put into perspective just how much leverage
you can get as a trader of futures.
The E-mini S&P 500 (ES) trading at a level of 1600 gives a trader control of
$80,000 of product (index level x $50 per point for this product). Current
CME exchange margin is $3,850 per contract which equates to a leverage
of roughly 20:1.
Whilst that’s pretty high it’s not exceptionally so. Enter the brokers.
For day trading, brokers offer a much lower intraday margin rate. In theory
a low intraday margin is useful for a well-capitalized account if you don’t
want to leave all of your capital sitting in your account.
However, in practice many traders will use these low margins to trade with
much less capital than is realistically required. Typically a broker will offer
you $500 intraday margin and I’ve seen as low as $400 per contract for the
ES.
At the same 1600 level that’s a leverage of 200:1.
That’s 8 points to zero or a 0.5% move in a product that typically has a
primary session range of 10-20 points. And it’s important to note that
margined accounts can fall below zero, meaning that if the market moves
sharply against you and losses are greater than the capital in your account,
you will be liable for the difference.
But just like everything else in trading, it’s an individual’s responsibility to
ensure that they fully comprehend the risks involved and act in their own
best interests. If you take account of the risks, the ability to highly leverage
your trading capital can be a powerful ally.
If you have a genuine edge in the market that has demonstrated will make
money over time, then being able to trade more contracts than you would
normally with the capital you have is a distinct advantage. If you stick to a
1-2% risk per trade with a 2-3 point stop in the ES, you only need $5,000-
15,000 per contract for example.


--- Page 70 ---
Clearly there’s the opportunity to turn a relatively small amount of capital
into a great return.
 
Futures Markets Have Great LIQUIDITY
In fairness, there are plenty of futures instruments that have poor liquidity
just as anything else could that you might look to trade. But there are
reasonably high numbers of really great products to trade, with a variety of
different behavioral features and risk profiles that also have fantastic
liquidity.
Many instruments don’t even have a bid-ask spread in the front month
contract.
An important point is that futures contracts are agreements to deliver (or
take delivery of) the underlying product at a certain date and therefore they
expire. So if you hold a long (buy) position in Crude Oil into expiry, you will
be expected to take delivery and pay for a whole load of barrels of Crude
Oil.
Some products are cash settled instead like the ES for example. It’s for this
very reason that a futures trader will never normally want to hold a position
into expiry. The front month is the nearest expiring futures contract (except
when approaching the expiration date) and this is where the liquidity for an
instrument is normally found.
The main point about liquidity though, is that you’ll never really have a
problem getting into or out of a position in the markets.
 
CENTRALIZED REGULATED EXCHANGES
The futures industry is highly regulated and whilst there are those who try
to get away with nefarious activities, they are often identified swiftly and
dealt with appropriately. Regulatory requirements are stringent and are
there to protect traders.
And because the exchanges are centrally cleared, effectively meaning that
all trades goes through the exchange (although this isn’t 100% accurate it is


--- Page 71 ---
true for the most part), there is accountability for all trades that take place.
Simply put, you get what you see in most cases when you trade. Direct
market access means no funny business from your broker too. Your trading
platform links into the exchange.
Because of this, the quality of futures markets is high.
The bottom line is that if you are a sensible, responsible trader who treats
this as a business, futures markets offer a fantastic way to trade. They are
efficient, cost effective and properly regulated. Sure, like any other product
there are a few nuances to learn.
But if you’re serious about trading and day trading in particular, you should
seriously consider trading futures.


--- Page 72 ---
We all want to win and be successful traders. Why is it that so many of us
fail? What is the difference between the traders that succeed and those
that don’t? There is no one answer, but a number of elements that work
against us as traders. Some of them are:
1. Emotions: Failure to learn to control emotion when faced with losses,
gains, luck and indecision, which leads to poor decision making.
2. Timing: Market timing is a factor you must master to become a
successful trader. This is where the majority of traders fall by the
wayside.
3. Capital: Under capitalization or external pressure to make money. In this
do or die situation traders will often feel that the market must produce
‘regular’ and ‘consistent’ profits for them or they’ll be put into a financial
bind. This introduces trade psychology issues and sets a trader up for
failure.
4. Seeking the Golden System: Failure to stick to one system. Most traders
typically take a few losses and then they start trying to change things,
tweak things, and then ultimately find something else. They jump from
one system to the next without ever really learning the system’s rules
and methodology. They think they can find a no-fail trading system right
away, before they give the system a real trial. The problem with this is
4 Tips to Create a Winning
Strategy for Futures Day
Traders


--- Page 73 ---
there are no “no-fail” trade systems and unless you truly learn the
system you’ll never find success.
Now, how many of these have wreaked havoc in your trading? Personally,
I’m probably guilty of making all of these mistakes at one point or another.
So, let’s focus on how to avoid these and come up with a plan and strategy
to help you develop into a successful Futures Day Trader.
I’m focusing on Futures as this is where I spend most of my time trading.
You may have heard some of this before, but this time it will sink in. Go
ahead, tell yourself. This time I will apply what I hear and learn. Ok, now
that you are ready to absorb, I’m ready to teach.
First and foremost, pick a market that you like or are familiar with. Keep in
mind it should be one that suits your trade style. You need to make sure
you have enough capital to trade that market as well. For example, if you
have a $5,000 account you don’t want to start trading the ES or Oil since
they are beyond 2% risk per trade on that size of an account. The NQ or
Dow has smaller risk per point, so you and your account can handle a few
losses without putting you on that emotional roller coaster.
Now that you have picked a market, you create a plan. If you don’t want to
create a plan from scratch, there are several resources through NetPicks to
help you. You can request one from our traders/coaches, ask for additional
help from a coach, or follow along in the Trade Rooms to develop your own
plan based on what is traded in the room.
You will need to test this tradeplan yourself, but some of the work can be
eliminated if you choose to go with something you know works for others.
It’s best to backtest the plan for at least 6 months. This will give you
anticipated results, so you know what to expect when you start to trade. It
is important to know, how many wins and losses in a row your market
usually gives you, so that you can be prepared mentally and emotionally to
trade it.
Next, learn how to manage your trades on the platform you will be trading
live. This way you can make certain tweaks, such as perfecting your trailing
stop. Remember, trade your plan, and don’t deviate from it. If you can
execute 25 trades in a row with no errors then you are ready to trade live.
Notice I said 25 trades with no errors, I didn’t say 25 trades without losses.


--- Page 74 ---
You will have losses. They are a part of trading. Expect them and get used
to them. This will build your confidence, strengthen your emotions and show
you that the system you have works. You can see from these 3 steps, I have
covered all of the issues above.
Finally, it is time to trade the plan in the live market. This will give you the
feel of the market. You’ll see how fast it moves and how it responds to
news.
Now, you will make mistakes, but don’t let them stop you. Learn from each
one. Journal after each trade and then look at your results and emotions as
you were trading. Did you skip a trade because you did not feel good about
it or that you expected the market to go the other way? You can skip a
trade if it falls into the parameters of a filter in your trade plan, but if it
doesn’t you know moving forward that is an issue you’ll need to work on. If
you find yourself making too many mistakes, then stop trading and
reevaluate what you are doing wrong and why. Talk to a coach or mentor.
Everyone has been where you are now and the coaches at NetPicks are
here to help make you successful.
In a nutshell, what are the keys to becoming a successful Futures Day
Trader or really any Day Trader? Take these steps to heart and you will be a
better trader!
1. Have a plan, backtest the market and then practice till you have it down
cold.
2. Use that plan and backtest data to help get your emotions and psyche
under control. If you know what to expect from your testing, the actual
trading will be easy and much less emotional.
3. Keep your risk low and don’t use too much margin. This will keep you in
the game. You’ll be able to take the next trade after a few losses to
come back positive or at least close to it.
4. Test the system and know the win percentage. Prove to yourself that it
works before risking a dime.
5. Finally, share your success and lessons with others. Give back to others,
success breeds success!
- Ron Weiland: Known as "Coach Ron" has mastered the art of forex swing
trading