Source: 372759727-The-Python-Manual.pdf
Pages: 196
Characters: 362532
Processing Time: 1.49s
================================================================================

--- Page 1 ---
FREE Code 
Download
Discover how to master Python and expand your programming skills
Inside...
Manual
python
The
  Step-by-step 
guides to help you 
master Python
  Learn  Python 3 
code and apply it to 
real-world programs
  Discover how to 
code games, play 
music and more
  Utilise our Python 
3 code repository 
and Code Portal
BDM’s 
NEW! | Python 3 | Coding | Linux
Fully 
updated 
for 2018
190
PAGES
of expert 
guides
 
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
BDM Publications
www.bdmpublications.com
@bdmpubs
Manual
python
The
 BDM’s
Welcome to Python, the world’s best programming language
Python is a fantastic programming language that has taken the world 
by storm. It’s easy to use, powerful, useful and fun. It works with other 
programming languages and with all the major computer operating 
systems and platforms available today. It’s the ideal choice for entry-level 
programmers who want to learn a new skill or simply want to discover how 
they can create something on the computer that works for them.
Within these pages are numerous tutorials that walk you through: the 
process of building your first piece of code; tackling variables, numbers and 
expressions; user input; Python modules; and building and manipulating 
lists of data. We’ve even included a section called the Code Repository, 
which covers a huge range of different types of Python programming; 
and which you’re free to delve into and use in your own unique programs. 
Learning Python is great fun, so what are you waiting for?
Let’s get coding!


--- Page 4 ---
Contents
The Python Manual
8	
Why Python?
10	
Equipment You Will Need
12	
Getting to Know Python
14	
How to Set Up Python in Windows
16	
How to Set Up Python on a Mac
18	
How to Set Up Python in Linux
20	
Installing a Text Editor
24	
Starting Python for the First Time
26	
Your First Code
28	
Saving and Executing Your Code
30	
Executing Code from the Command Line
32	
Numbers and Expressions
34	
Using Comments
36	
Working with Variables
38	
User Input 
40	
Creating Functions 
42	
Conditions and Loops 
44	
Python Modules 
46	
Python Errors 
48	
Combining What You Know So Far
60	
Formatting Strings 
62	
Date and Time
64	
Opening Files
66	
Writing to Files 
68	
Exceptions 
70	
Python Graphics 
72	
Combining What You Know So Far
76	
Calendar Module 
78	
OS Module 
80	
Random Module 
82	
Tkinter Module 
84	
Pygame Module 
88	
Create Your Own Modules 
52	
Lists 
54	
Tuples 
56	
Dictionaries 
58	
Splitting and Joining Strings
92	
Python File Manager
94	
Number Guessing Game
96	
Polygon Circles
97	
Random Number Generator
98	
Random Password Generator
99	
Keyboard Drawing Script
100	
Pygame Text Examples
101	
Google Search Script
102	
Text to Binary Convertor
104	
Basic GUI File Browser
106	
Mouse Controlled Turtle
107	
Python Alarm Clock
108	
Vertically Scrolling Text
BDM’s: The Python Manual
4
Contents
6
 Say Hello to Python                                  
 
22
 Getting Started with Python                
 
50
 Working with Data	
	
                
 
74
 Using Modules	
	
                
 
90
 Code Repository  	
	
                
 
BDM’s  
Code Portal
21 Python programs 
3,000+ lines of code
Master Python with the help  
of our fantastic Code Portal,  
featuring code for games, tools  
and more. See page 90  
for more details.


--- Page 5 ---
110	
Python Digital Clock
112	
Pygame Music Player
113	
Python Image Slideshow Script
114	
Playing music with the Winsound Module
116	
Text Adventure Script
118	
Python Scrolling Ticker Script
119	
Simple Python Calculator
120	
Hangman Game Script
142	
Discovering Unix? 
144	
Using the Unix Filesystem 
146	
Listing and Viewing Files 
148	
Creating and Deleting Files
150	
Create and Remove Directories
152	
Copying, Moving and Renaming Files
154	
Using the Man Pages
156	
Editing Text Files 
158	
Getting to Know Users 
160	
Ownership and Permissions
162	
Useful System and Disk Commands
164	
Managing Programs and Processes
166	
Input, Output and Pipes 
168	
Using Grep Pattern Matching
170	
Tab Completion and History
172	
Using Python Code in Linux Scripts
124	
Getting Started with Scratch
126	
Creating Scripts in Scratch
128	
Interaction in Scratch 
130	
Using Sprites in Scratch 
132	
Sensing and Broadcast 
134	
Objects and Local Variables
136	
Global Variables and a Dice Game
138	
Classes and Objects 
176	
Using GitHub 
178	
Build a CamJam EduKit Robot
180	
Controlling Your Robot 
182	
Add Sensors to the Robot 
184	
Amazing Robotics Projects to Try
186	
Arcade Machine Projects 
188	
Security Projects 
190	
Becoming a Coder
192	
Glossary of Terms
BDM’s: The Python Manual
5
www.bdmpublications.com
Contents
BDM’s: The Python Manual  
ISBN 978-1-907306-88-4 
Published by: .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . Papercut Limited 
Editor: .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . James Gale 
Art Director & Production: .  . . Mark Ayshford 
Production Manager: .  .  .  .  . . . . Karl Linstead  
Design: .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . Robin Drew, Lena Whitaker 
Editorial: .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . David Hayward 
Sub Editor: .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . Paul Beard
Digital distribution by: PocketMags.com
 
For all advertising and promotional opportunities contact: 
enquiries@bdmpublications.com
Copyright © 2017 Papercut Limited. All rights reserved.
INTERNATIONAL LICENSING – Papercut Limited has many great publications 
and all are available for licensing worldwide.  For more information go to: 
www.brucesawfordlicensing.com; email: bruce@brucesawfordlicensing.com; 
telephone: 0044 7831 567372
Editorial and design is copyright © 2017 Papercut Limited. No part of 
this publication may be reproduced in any form, stored in a retrieval 
system or integrated into any other publication, database or commercial 
programs without the express written permission of the publisher. Under 
no circumstances should this publication and its contents be resold, loaned 
out or used in any form by way of trade without the publisher’s written 
permission. While we pride ourselves on the quality of the information we 
provide, Papercut Limited reserves the right not to be held responsible for 
any mistakes or inaccuracies found within the text of this publication. Due 
to the nature of the software industry, the publisher cannot guarantee 
that all tutorials will work on every version of Linux Mint, Debian-based or 
other Linux distributions. It remains the purchaser’s sole responsibility to 
determine the suitability of this book and its content for whatever purpose. 
Images reproduced on the front and back cover are solely for design 
purposes and are not representative of content. We advise all potential 
buyers to check listing prior to purchase for confirmation of actual content. 
All editorial opinion herein is that of the reviewer as an individual and is 
not representative of the publisher or any of its affiliates. Therefore the 
publisher holds no responsibility in regard to editorial opinion and content. 
BDM’s: The Python Manual is an independent publication and as such does 
not necessarily reflect the views or opinions of the producers contained 
within. This publication is not endorsed or associated in any way with The 
Linux Foundation, Canonical Ltd, Arch Linux, Debian Project, Lenovo, Dell, 
Hewlett-Packard, Apple and Samsung or any associate or affiliate company. 
All copyrights, trademarks and registered trademarks for the respective 
companies are acknowledged. Relevant graphic imagery reproduced with 
courtesy of Lenovo, Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Samsung, Linux Mint, Canonical, 
Ubuntu, Arch Linux and Apple. 
Additional images contained within this publication are reproduced under 
licence from Shutterstock.com. 
Prices, international availability, ratings, titles and content are subject to 
change. All information was correct at time of print. Some content may have 
been previously published in other BDM titles. 
Papercut Limited 
Registered in England & Wales No: 4308513
122  Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch and Python                                                  
 
140  Getting to Know the Command Line                                                                                                           
 
174  Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects	                                                                                               
 


--- Page 6 ---
Say Hello 
to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual
6
Index


--- Page 7 ---
In the ‘80s, during the golden age 
of the home computer, users and 
enthusiasts all strove to create code to 
perform a certain task. Regardless of 
what these pioneers of programming 
made on their machines, they forged 
the foundations of our digital world.
With the rise of the Internet, modern 
computers and consoles, home 
programming became something 
of a lost art. However, the bedroom 
coder has returned and thanks 
to the power of Python you can 
become the new generation of home 
computer programmers. 
This book will help you learn how 
to program using the latest version 
of Python. With it you can create 
user interactive code, graphics and 
animations, and even your own 
unique games. You’ll discover how 
to manipulate data, variables and 
Python modules.
So read on and let’s see how to start 
you off on your Python adventure.
8	
Why Python?
10	
Equipment You Will Need
12	
Getting to Know Python
14	
How to Set Up Python in Windows
16	
How to Set Up Python on a Mac
18	
How to Set Up Python in Linux
20	
Installing a Text Editor
BDM’s: The Python Manual
7
www.bdmpublications.com
Say Hello to Python


--- Page 8 ---
There are many different programming languages available for the modern computer, 
and some still available for older 8 and 16-bit computers too. Some of these languages 
are designed for scientific work, others for mobile platforms and such. So why choose 
Python out of all the rest? 
Ever since the earliest home computers were available, enthusiasts, users and professionals have toiled away until the wee 
hours, slaving over an overheating heap of circuitry to create something akin to magic.
These pioneers of programming carved their way into a new 
frontier, forging small routines that enabled the letter ‘A’ to scroll 
across the screen. It may not sound terribly exciting to a generation 
that’s used to ultra high-definition graphics and open world, multi-
player online gaming. However, forty-something years ago it was 
blindingly brilliant.
Naturally these bedroom coders helped form the foundations for 
every piece of digital technology we use today. Some went on to 
become chief developers for top software companies, whereas 
others pushed the available hardware to its limits and founded the 
billion pound gaming empire that continually amazes us.
PYTHON POWER
Why Python?
Regardless of whether you use an Android device, iOS device, PC, 
Mac, Linux, Smart TV, games console, MP3 player, GPS device built-in 
to a car, set-top box or a thousand other connected and ‘smart’ 
appliances, behind them all is programming. 
All those aforementioned digital devices need instructions to tell 
them what to do, and allow them to be interacted with. These 
instructions form the programming core of the device and that core 
can be built using a variety of programming languages. 
The languages in use today differ depending on the situation, the 
platform, the device’s use and how the device will interact with its 
8
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual
C++ is usually reserved for more complex 
programs, operating systems, games and so on.


--- Page 9 ---
environment or users. Operating systems, such as Windows, macOS 
and such are usually a combination of C++, C#, assembly and some 
form of visual-based language. Games generally use C++ whilst web 
pages can use a plethora of available languages such as HTML, Java, 
Python and so on.
More general-purpose programming is used to create programs, 
apps, software or whatever else you want to call them. They’re 
widely used across all hardware platforms and suit virtually every 
conceivable application. Some operate faster than others and some 
are easier to learn and use than others. Python is one such general-
purpose language.
Python is what’s known as a High-Level Language, in that it ‘talks’ 
to the hardware and operating system using a variety of arrays, 
variables, objects, arithmetic, subroutines, loops and countless 
more interactions. Whilst it’s not as streamlined as a Low-Level 
Language, which can deal directly with memory addresses, call 
stacks and registers, its benefit is that it’s universally accessible and 
easy to learn.
Python was created over twenty six years ago and has evolved to 
become an ideal beginner’s language for learning how to program a 
computer. It’s perfect for the hobbyist, enthusiast, student, teacher 
and those who simply need to create their own unique interaction 
between either themselves or a piece of external hardware and the 
computer itself.
Python is free to download, install and use and is available for Linux, 
Windows, macOS, MS-DOS, OS/2, BeOS, IBM i-series machines, and 
even RISC OS. It has been voted one of the top five programming 
languages in the world and is continually evolving ahead of the 
hardware and Internet development curve.
So to answer the question: why python? Simply put, it’s free, easy to 
learn, exceptionally powerful, universally accepted, effective and a 
superb learning and educational tool.
9
www.bdmpublications.com
Why Python?
BDM’s: The Python Manual
Java is a powerful language 
that’s used in web pages, 
set-top boxes, TVs and 
even cars.
BASIC was once the starter language that early 
8-bit home computer users learned.
Python is a more modern take on BASIC, it’s easy to learn 
and makes for an ideal beginner’s programming language. 


--- Page 10 ---
You can learn Python with very little hardware or initial financial investment.  
You don’t need an incredibly powerful computer and any software that’s required  
is freely available. 
Throughout this book we’re going to be using a Raspberry Pi version 3, with the latest version of Raspbian as the operating 
system. This is purely due to it being an excellent learning platform.  
WHAT WE’RE USING
Obviously you’re going to need a computer 
in order to learn how to program in Python 
and to test your code. You can use Windows (from XP onwards) on 
either a 32 or 64-bit processor, an Apple Mac or Linux installed PC.
macOS and Linux already come 
with Python preinstalled as 
part of the operating system; that also includes the Raspberry Pi. 
However, you need to ensure you’re running the latest version of 
Python. Windows users will need to download and install Python, 
which we’ll cover shortly.
An IDE (Integrated Developer Environment) is used 
to enter and execute Python code. It enables you to 
inspect your program code and the values within the code, as well 
as offering advanced features. We’re going to be using the default 
Python IDLE environment throughout this book. 
Whilst a text editor is an ideal 
environment to enter code into, it’s not 
an absolute necessity: you can enter and execute code directly 
from the IDLE. However, a text editor, such as Sublime Text or 
Notepad++, offers more advanced features and colour coding when 
entering code.
  COMPUTER
  PYTHON SOFTWARE
  AN IDE
  TEXT EDITOR
Equipment You  
Will Need
10
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 11 ---
Why use a Raspberry Pi? The Raspberry Pi is a tiny computer that’s very cheap to purchase, but offers the user a fantastic learning 
platform. Its main operating system, Raspbian, comes preinstalled with the latest Python along with many modules and extras.
THE RASPBERRY PI 
Python is an ever evolving 
environment and as such, 
new versions often introduce new concepts or change existing 
commands and code structure to make it a more efficient language. 
Having access to the Internet will keep you up to date, help out 
when you get a little stuck and give you access to Python’s immense 
number of Modules (more on Modules later).
Despite what other books may 
lead you to believe, you won’t 
become a programmer in 24-hours. Learning to code in Python 
takes time, and patience. You may become stuck at times and other 
times the code will flow like water. Understand that you’re learning 
something entirely new, and you will get there.
The FUZE is a learning environment 
built on the latest model of the 
Raspberry Pi. You can purchase the workstations that come with an 
electronics kit and even a robot arm for you to build and program. 
You can find more information on the FUZE at fuze.co.uk.
The Raspberry Pi 3 is the latest version, 
incorporating a more powerful CPU, 
more memory, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth support. You can pick up a Pi for 
around £32 or as a part of kit for £50+ depending on the kit you’re 
interested in. 
We have a number 
of great Raspberry 
Pi titles available via 
bdmpublications.
com. Our Pi books 
cover buying your first 
Raspberry Pi, setting it 
up, how to use it and 
some great step-by-step 
project examples and 
how to get the most 
from the Raspberry Pi. 
The Raspberry Pi’s main operating system is 
a Debian-based Linux distribution that comes 
with everything you need in a simple to use package. It’s streamlined 
for the Pi and is an ideal platform for hardware and software 
projects, Python programming and even as a desktop computer. 
  INTERNET ACCESS
  TIME AND PATIENCE
  FUZE PROJECT
  RASPBERRY PI
  BOOKS
  RASPBIAN
11
www.bdmpublications.com
Equipment You Will Need
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 12 ---
Python is the greatest computer programming language ever created. It enables 
you to fully harness the power of a computer, in a language that’s clean and easy 
to understand.
It helps to understand what a programming language is before you try to learn one, and Python is no different. Let’s take a 
look at how Python came about and how it relates to other languages.
WHAT IS PROGRAMMING?
A programming language 
is a list of instructions that 
a computer follows. These 
instructions can be as simple 
as displaying your name 
or playing a music file, or 
as complex as building a 
whole virtual world. Python 
is a programming language 
conceived in the late 1980s 
by Guido van Rossum 
at Centrum Wiskunde & 
Informatica (CWI) in the 
Netherlands as a successor to 
the ABC language.
Just like a recipe, a program consists of instructions 
that you follow in order. A program that describes a 
cake might run like this:
  bowl = []	
  flour = 100	
  butter = 50	
  milk = 100	
  bowl.append([flour,butter,milk])	
  cake.cook(bowl)	
Programs are like recipes for computers. A recipe to 
bake a cake could go like this:
Put 100 grams of self-raising flour in a bowl.
Add 100 grams of butter to the bowl.
Add 100 millilitres of milk.
Bake for half an hour.
You might not understand some of the Python 
commands, like bowl.append and cake.cook(bowl). 
The first is a list, the second an object; we’ll look at both in this book. 
The main thing to know is that it’s easy to read commands in Python. 
Once you learn what the commands do, it’s easy to figure out how a 
program works.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Getting to  
Know Python
12
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 13 ---
Computer languages that are easy to read are 
known as “high-level”. This is because they fly high 
above the hardware (also referred to as “the metal”). Languages 
that “fly close to the metal,” like Assembly, are known as “low-level”. 
Low-level languages commands read a bit like this: msg db ,0xa 
len equ $ - msg.
Python lets you access all the power of a computer 
in a language that humans can understand. Behind 
all this is an ethos called “The Zen of Python.” This is a collection of 
20 software principles that influences the design of the language. 
Principles include “Beautiful is better than ugly” and “Simple is 
better than complex.” Type  import this into Python and it will 
display all the principles. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
In a typical computing scenario, Python is complicated somewhat by the existence of two active versions of the language: 
Python 2 and Python 3.
PYTHON 3 VS PYTHON 2
When you visit the Python Download page you’ll 
notice that there are two buttons available: one for 
Python 3.6.2 and the other for Python 2.7.13; correct at the time of 
writing (remember Python is frequently updated so you may see 
different version numbers).
So why two? Well, Python 2 was originally launched 
in 2000 and has since then adopted quite a large 
collection of modules, scripts, users, tutorials and so on. Over the 
years Python 2 has fast become one of the first go to programming 
languages for beginners and experts to code in, which makes it an 
extremely valuable resource.
In 2008 Python 3 arrived with several new and 
enhanced features. These features provide a  
more stable, effective and efficient programming environment  
but sadly, most (if not all) of these new features are not 
compatible with Python 2 scripts, modules and tutorials. Whilst 
not popular at first, Python 3 has since become the cutting edge of 
Python programming.
Python 3’s growing popularity has meant that it’s 
now prudent to start learning to develop with the 
new features and begin to phase out the previous version. Hence 
why this book will be solely dedicated to programming in Python 
3.x and not Python 2.x.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
13
www.bdmpublications.com
Getting to Know Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 14 ---
Windows users can easily install the latest version of Python via the main Python 
Downloads page. Whilst most seasoned Python developers may shun Windows as the 
platform of choice for building their code, it’s still an ideal starting point for beginners. 
Microsoft Windows doesn’t come with Python preinstalled as standard, so you’re going to have to install it yourself manually. 
Thankfully, it’s an easy process to follow. 
INSTALLING PYTHON 3.X
Start by opening your web browser to www.python.
org/downloads/. Look for the button detailing the 
download link for Python 3.x.x (in our case this is Python 3.6.2 but as 
mentioned you may see later versions of 3).
Choosing the Customise option allows you to 
specify certain parameters, and whilst you may 
stay with the defaults, it’s a good habit to adopt as sometimes (not 
with Python, thankfully) installers can include unwanted additional 
features. On the first screen available, ensure all boxes are ticked 
and click the Next button.
Click the download button for version 3.x, and 
save the file to your Downloads folder. When the 
file is downloaded, double-click the executable and the Python 
installation wizard will launch. From here you have two choices: 
Install Now and Customise Installation. We recommend opting for 
the Customise Installation link. 
The next page of options include some interesting 
additions to Python. Ensure the Associate file with 
Python, Create Shortcuts, Add Python to Environment Variables, 
Precompile Standard Library and Install for All Users options are 
ticked. These make using Python later much easier. Click Install when 
you’re ready to continue.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
How to Set Up  
Python in Windows
14
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 15 ---
You may need to confirm the installation with the 
Windows authentication notification. Simply click 
Yes and Python will begin to install. Once the installation is complete 
the final Python wizard page will allow you to view the latest release 
notes, and follow some online tutorials. 
Windows 10 users will now 
find the installed Python 
3.x within the Start button 
Recently Added section. The 
first link, Python 3.6 (32-bit) 
will launch the command 
line version of Python 
when clicked (more on 
that in a moment). To open 
the IDLE, type IDLE into 
Windows start. 
Before you close the install wizard window, 
however, it’s best to click on the link next to the 
shield detailed Disable Path Length Limit. This will allow Python 
to bypass the Windows 260 character limitation, enabling you to 
execute Python programs stored in deep folders arrangements. 
Again, click Yes to authenticate the process; then you can Close the 
installation window. 
Clicking on the IDLE (Python 3.6 32-bit) link will 
launch the Python Shell, where you can begin  
your Python programming journey. Don’t worry if your version 
is newer, as long as it’s Python 3.x our code will work inside your 
Python 3 interface.
The command line version of Python works in 
much the same way as the Shell you opened in 
Step 8; note the three left-facing arrows (>>>). Whilst it’s a perfectly 
fine environment, it’s not too user-friendly, so leave the command 
line for now. Enter: exit() to leave and close the Command 
Prompt window. 
If you now click on the Windows Start button again, 
and this time type: CMD, you’ll be presented with the 
Command Prompt link. Click it to get to the Windows command line 
environment. To enter Python within the command line, you need 
to type: python and press Enter. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
15
www.bdmpublications.com
How to Set Up Python in Windows
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 16 ---
If you’re running an Apple Mac, then setting up Python is incredibly easy. In fact a 
version of Python is already installed. However, you should make sure you’re running 
the latest version.
Apple’s operating system comes with Python installed, so you don’t need to install it separately. However, Apple doesn’t 
update Python very often and you’re probably running an older version. So it makes sense to check and update first. 
INSTALLING PYTHON
Open a new Terminal window by clicking Go > 
Utilities, then double-click the Terminal icon. Now 
enter: python --version. You should see “Python 2.5.1” and 
even later, if Apple has updated the OS and Python installation. 
Either way, it’s best to check for the latest version.
Click on the latest version of Python 3.x, in our 
case this is the download button for Python 3.6.2. 
This will automatically download the latest version of Python and 
depending on how you’ve got your Mac configured, it automatically 
starts the installation wizard.
Open Safari and head over to www.python.org/
downloads. Just as with the Windows set up 
procedure on the previous pages, you can see two yellow download 
buttons: one for Python 3.6.2, and the other for Python 2.7.13. 
Note, that version numbers may be different due to the frequent 
releases of Python. 
With the Python installation wizard open, click on 
the Continue button to begin the installation. It’s 
worth taking a moment to read through the Important Information 
section, in case it references something that applies to your version 
of macOS. When ready, click Continue again. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
How to Set Up  
Python on a Mac
16
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 17 ---
The next section details the Software License 
Agreement, and whilst not particularly interesting 
to most folks, it’s probably worth a read. When you’re ready, click on 
the Continue button once again. 
The installation shouldn’t take too long; the older 
Mac Mini we used in this section is a little slower 
than more modern Mac machines and it only took around thirty 
seconds for the Installation Successful prompt to be displayed. 
Finally you’re be presented with the amount of 
space Python will take up on your system and an 
Install button, which you need to click to start the actual installation 
of Python 3.x on to your Mac. You may need to enter your password 
to authenticate the installation process.
There’s nothing much else left to do in the Python 
installation wizard so you can click the Close button. 
If you now drop back into a Terminal session and re-enter the 
command: python3 --version, you can see the new version is 
now listed. To enter the command line version of Python, you need 
to enter: python3. To exit, it’s: exit(). 
Older Mac versions may have trouble with the 
newer versions of Python, in which case you will 
need to revert to a previous Python 3.x build; as long as you’re using 
Python 3.x, the code in this book will work for you. 
You need to search in Finder for the Python IDLE; 
when you’ve found it, click it to launch and it 
should look similar to that of the Windows IDLE version shown on 
the previous page. The only difference being the Mac detected 
hardware platform it’s running on. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
17
www.bdmpublications.com
How to Set Up Python on a Mac
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 18 ---
Python version 2.x is already installed in most Linux distributions but as we’re going to 
be using Python 3.x, there’s a little work we need to do first to get hold of it. Thankfully, 
it’s not too difficult. 
Linux is such a versatile operating system that it’s often difficult to nail down just one way of doing something. Different 
distributions go about installing software in different ways, so we will stick to Linux Mint 18.1 for this particular tutorial.  
PYTHON PENGUIN
First you need to ascertain which version of Python 
is currently installed in your Linux system; as we 
mentioned, we’re going to be using Linux Mint 18.1 for this section. 
As with macOS, drop into a Terminal by pressing Ctrl+Atl+T.
Some Linux distros will automatically update 
the installation of Python to the latest versions 
whenever the system is updated. To check, first do a system update 
and upgrade with:
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
Enter your password and let the system do any updates. 
Next enter: python --version into the 
Terminal screen. You should have the output 
relating to version 2.x of Python in the display. Ours in this case if 
Python 2.7.12. 
Once the update and upgrade is complete, you 
may need to answer ‘Y’ to authorise any upgrades, 
enter: python3 --version to see if Python 3.x is updated or even 
installed. In the case of Linux Mint, the version we have is Python 
3.5.2, which is fine for our purposes. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
How to Set Up  
Python in Linux
18
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 19 ---
However, if you want the latest version, 3.6.2 as per 
the Python website at the time of writing, you need 
to build Python from source. Start by entering these commands into 
the Terminal:
sudo apt-get install build-essential checkinstall
sudo apt-get install libreadline-gplv2-dev 
libncursesw5-dev libssl-dev libsqlite3-dev tk-dev 
libgdbm-dev libc6-dev libbz2-dev 
In the Terminal, go the Downloads folder by 
entering: cd Downloads/. Then unzip the 
contents of the downloaded Python source code with: tar -xvf 
Python-3.6.2.tar.xz. Now enter the newly unzipped folder 
with cd Python-3.6.2/. 
Open up your Linux web browser and go to 
the Python download page: www.python.org/
downloads. Click on the Download Python 3.6.2 (or whichever 
version it’s on when you look) to download the source Python-
3.6.2.tar.xz file. 
Within the Python folder, enter:
./configure
sudo make altinstall
This could a little while depending on the speed of your computer. 
Once finished, enter: python3.6 --version to check the 
installed latest version.
You also need PIP (Pip Installs Packages) which is a 
tool to help you install more modules and extras. 
Enter:  sudo apt-get install python3-pip
PIP is then installed; check for the latest update with:
pip3 install --upgrade pip 
When complete, close the Terminal and Python 3.x will be available 
via the Programming section in your distro’s menu.
For the GUI IDLE, you need to enter the following 
command into the Terminal:
sudo apt-get install idle3
The IDLE can then be started with the command: idle3. Note, that 
IDLE runs a different version from the one you installed from source. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP  9
19
www.bdmpublications.com
How to Set Up Python in Linux
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 20 ---
It’s not entirely necessary (as you can use the IDLE) but a text editor will help you 
immensely when you’re entering code. A normal word processor inserts its own unique 
characters, paragraph settings and much more, so it’s not a good platform for Python code.
Sublime Text is an excellent, cross-platform text editor that’s designed for entering code. It has a slick interface, many 
features and performs magnificently. In short, it’s an ideal starting point.  
SUBLIME CODE
Let’s begin by navigating to the Sublime Text 
webpage, to download the latest version for 
whatever operating system you’re currently running. You can find 
the website at www.sublimetext.com, together with a download 
button for the detected OS that you’re using.
Whichever version you choose, download the setup 
files and double-click them to begin the set up 
process. If you’re using Windows, which we are in this instance, then 
you see the standard installation wizard. The defaults will suffice, so 
go ahead and install the program.
However, if you want to specify a particular 
operating system version, then click on the 
Download link found in the top menu bar on the site. This will open 
a page with links for the latest version for OS X, Windows, Windows 
64-bit and Linux machines. 
When installed, Sublime defaults to a black 
background and white text; whilst this is perfectly 
fine for most users, it’s not always the most comfortable viewing 
setup. Thankfully, there are countless themes you can apply by 
clicking Preferences > Colour Scheme. We’ve opted for IDLE in  
this screenshot. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Installing a  
Text Editor
20
Say Hello to Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 21 ---
Sublime Text offers some excellent features over 
that of the standard Python IDLE. For example, 
enter the following:
print (“Hello everyone!”)
This is an actual Python command, which will print the words 
Hello everyone! on the screen. Notice how Sublime automatically 
recognises this as code and places the quotes and parentheses.
We’re not going to get too heavily into the 
code right now but an indent is part of Python 
programming, where a statement indicates that the following 
indented commands must be run until a particular event has 
happened; after which the indents stop. Pressing Ctrl+] will indent a 
line of code in Python. 
Soon, as you become more Python-savvy, you’ll find 
that the standard IDLE isn’t quite up to the task 
of keeping up with your code, alterations and injections of code 
mid-way through a long program. However, Sublime will keep you 
updated and you can even utilise indents easily.
Sublime isn’t just for Python either. With it you can 
build code for a number of programming languages. 
Click on Tools > Build System to see which languages you’re able to 
build with in Sublime.
However, we recommend you use the IDLE for 
this book. The Python IDLE isn’t as advanced as 
Sublime but it’s a perfect base on which to build your skills; and you 
don’t have to worry about any extra features (as this is a Python 
book, not a Sublime book). Python code can be saved though, in its 
appropriate format within Sublime. 
Sublime comes with a number of preinstalled 
plugins for Python code, allowing you to experiment 
with your code in real-time. They’re probably a little bewildering at 
this point in time but you will likely find them useful as your Python 
skills increase. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
21
www.bdmpublications.com
Installing a Text Editor
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 22 ---
Getting Started 
with Python
22
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 23 ---
Now that you have the latest version 
of Python installed, you can begin to 
get programming. These are your first 
steps in the wider world of Python; 
we’re here to help you write your first 
piece of code, save it and run it in the 
Python IDLE Shell.
We cover variables, numbers and 
expressions, user input, conditions 
and loops and the types of errors you 
will undoubtedly come across in your 
time with Python. Let’s start and see 
how to get coding.
24	
Starting Python for the First Time
26	
Your First Code
28	
Saving and Executing Your Code
30	
Executing Code from the Command Line
32	
Numbers and Expressions
34	
Using Comments
36	
Working with Variables
38	
User Input 
40	
Creating Functions 
42	
Conditions and Loops 
44	
Python Modules 
46	
Python Errors 
48	
Combining What You Know So Far
23
www.bdmpublications.com
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 24 ---
As previously mentioned we’re using the Raspberry Pi as our Python hardware platform. 
The latest version of Raspbian comes preinstalled with Python 3 (version 3.4.2); so as 
long as you have a version 3 Shell, all our code will work.
We won’t go into the details of getting the Raspberry Pi up and running, there’s plenty of material already available on that 
subject. However once you’re ready, fire up your Pi and get ready for coding.  
STARTING PYTHON
With the Raspbian desktop loaded, click on the 
Menu button followed by Programming > Python 3 
(IDLE). This will open the Python 3 Shell. Windows and Mac users can 
find the Python 3 IDLE Shell from within the Windows Start button 
menu and via Finder.
For example, in the Shell enter:  2+2
After pressing Enter, the next line will display the 
answer: 4. Basically, Python has taken the ‘code’ and produced the 
relevant output.
The Shell is where you can enter code and see the 
responses and output of code you’ve programmed 
into Python. This is a kind of sandbox, where you’re able to try out 
some simple code and processes. 
The Python Shell acts very much like a calculator, 
since code is basically a series of mathematical 
interactions with the system. Integers, which are the infinite 
sequence of whole numbers can easily be added, subtracted, 
multiplied and so on.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Starting Python 
for the First Time
24
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 25 ---
Whilst that’s very interesting, it’s nor particularly 
exciting. Instead, try this:
print(“Hello everyone!”)
As per the code we entered in Sublime in the Installing a Text Editor 
section of this book.
You may have noticed the colour coding within 
the Python IDLE. The colours represent different 
elements of Python code. They are:
Black – Data and Variables 
Green – Strings 
Purple – Functions 
Orange – Commands
Blue – User Functions 
Dark Red – Comments 
Light Red – Error Messages
This is a little more like it, since you’ve just produced 
your first bit of code. The Print command is fairly 
self-explanatory, it prints things. Python 3 requires the brackets as 
well as quote marks in order to output content to the screen, in this 
case the Hello everyone! bit.
The Python IDLE is a configurable environment. If 
you don’t like the way the colours are represented, 
then you can always change them via Options > Configure IDLE and 
clicking on the Highlighting tab. However, we don’t recommend that 
as you won’t be seeing the same as our screenshots. 
The Python IDLE is a power interface, and one 
that’s actually been written in Python using one 
of the available GUI toolkits. If you want to know the many ins and 
outs for the Shell, we recommend you take a few moments to view 
www.docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html, which details many of the 
IDLE’s features.
Just like most programs available, regardless of the 
operating system, there are numerous shortcut 
keys available. We don’t have room for them all here but within the 
Options > Configure IDLE and under the Keys tab, you can see a list 
of the current bindings. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
25
www.bdmpublications.com
Starting Python for the First Time
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 26 ---
Essentially, you’ve already written your first piece of code with the ‘print(“Hello 
everyone!”)’ function from the previous tutorial. However, let’s expand that and look at 
entering your code and playing around with some other Python examples. 
With most languages, computer or human, it’s all about remembering and applying the right words to the right situation. 
You’re not born knowing these words, so you need to learn them. 
PLAYING WITH PYTHON
If you’ve closed Python 3 IDLE, reopen it in 
whichever operating system version you prefer. In 
the Shell, enter the familiar following:
print(“Hello”)
You can see that instead of the number 4, the 
output is the 2+2 you asked to be printed to the 
screen. The quotation marks are defining what’s being outputted 
to the IDLE Shell; to print the total of 2+2 you need to remove 
the quotes:
print(2+2)
Just as predicted, the word Hello appears in 
the Shell as blue text, indicating output from a 
string. It’s fairly straightforward and doesn’t require too much 
explanation. Now try:
print(“2+2”)
You can continue as such, printing 2+2, 464+2343 
and so on to the Shell. An easier way is to use a 
variable, which is something we will cover in more depth later. For 
now, enter:
a=2 
b=2 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Your First Code
26
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 27 ---
What you have done here is assign the letters a 
and b two values: 2 and 2. These are now variables, 
which can be called upon by Python to output, add, subtract, divide 
and so on for as long as their numbers stay the same. Try this:
print(a) 
print(b) 
You can play around with different kinds of variables 
and the Print function. For example, you could 
assign variables for someone’s name:
name=”David” 
print(name)
The output of the last step displays the current 
values of both a and b individually, as you’ve asked 
them to be printed separately. If you want to add them up, you can 
use the following:
print(a+b) 
This code simply takes the values of a and b, adds them together 
and outputs the result.
Now let’s add a surname:
surname=”Hayward” 
print(surname)
You now have two variables containing a first name and a surname 
and you can print them independently. 
In Python 3 you can separate the two variables 
with a space using a comma:
print(name, surname) 
Alternatively, you can add the space ourselves:
print(name+” “+surname)
The use of the comma is much neater, as you can see. 
Congratulations, you’ve just taken your first steps into the wide 
world of Python.
If we were to apply the same routine as before, 
using the + symbol, the name wouldn’t appear 
correctly in the output in the Shell. Try it:
print(name+surname) 
You need a space between the two, defining them as two separate 
values and not something you mathematically play around with.
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
27
www.bdmpublications.com
Your First Code
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 28 ---
Whilst working in the IDLE Shell is perfectly fine for small code snippets, it’s not 
designed for entering longer program listings. In this section you’re going to be 
introduced to the IDLE Editor, where you will be working from now on. 
You will eventually reach a point where you have to move on from inputting single lines of code into the Shell. Instead, the 
IDLE Editor will allow you to save and execute your Python code. 
EDITING CODE
First, open the Python IDLE Shell and when it’s up, 
click on File > New File. This will open a new window 
with Untitled as its name. This is the Python IDLE Editor and within it 
you can enter the code needed to create your future programs.
You can see that the same colour coding is in place 
in the IDLE Editor as it is in the Shell, enabling you 
to better understand what’s going on with your code. However, to 
execute the code you need to first save it. Press F5 and you get a 
Save…Check box open.
The IDLE Editor is, for all intents and purposes, a 
simple text editor with Python features, colour 
coding and so on; much in the same vein as Sublime. You enter 
code as you would within the Shell, so taking an example from the 
previous tutorial, enter:
print(“Hello everyone!”)
Click on the OK button in the Save box and select a 
destination where you’ll save all your Python code. 
The destination can be a dedicated folder called Python or you 
can just dump it wherever you like. Remember to keep a tidy drive 
though, to help you out in the future.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Saving and Executing 
Your Code
28
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 29 ---
Enter a name for your code, ‘print hello’ for 
example, and click on the Save button. Once  the 
Python code is saved it’s executed and the output will be detailed in 
the IDLE Shell. In this case, the words ‘Hello everyone!’.
If you open the file location of the saved Python 
code, you can see that it ends in a .py extension. 
This is the default Python file name. Any code you create will be 
whatever.py and any code downloaded from the many internet 
Python resource sites will be .py. Just ensure that the code is written 
for Python 3.
This is how the vast majority of your Python code 
will be conducted. Enter it into the Editor, hit F5, 
save the code and look at the output in the Shell. Sometimes things 
will differ, depending on whether you’ve requested a separate 
window, but essentially that’s the process. It’s the process we will 
use throughout this book, unless otherwise stated.
Let’s extend the code and enter a few examples 
from the previous tutorial:
a=2 
b=2 
name=”David” 
surname=”Hayward” 
print(name, surname) 
print (a+b)
If you press F5 now you’ll be asked to save the file, again, as it’s been 
modified from before.
Now create a new file. Close the Editor, and open 
a new instance (File > New File from the Shell). 
Enter the following and save it as hello.py:
a=”Python” 
b=”is” 
c=”cool!” 
print(a, b, c)
You will use this code in the next tutorial. 
If you click the OK button, the file will be 
overwritten with the new code entries, and 
executed, with the output in the Shell. It’s not a problem with just 
these few lines but if you were to edit a larger file, overwriting can 
become an issue. Instead, use File > Save As from within the Editor 
to create a backup. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
29
www.bdmpublications.com
Saving and Executing Your Code
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 30 ---
Although we’re working from the GUI IDLE throughout this book, it’s worth taking 
a look at Python’s command line handling. We already know there’s a command line 
version of Python but it’s also used to execute code.
Using the code we created in the previous tutorial, the one we named hello.py, let’s see how you can run code that was made 
in the GUI at the command line level.  
COMMAND THE CODE
Python, in Linux, comes with two possible ways of 
executing code via the command line. One of the 
ways is with Python 2, whilst the other uses the Python 3 libraries 
and so on. First though, drop into the command line or Terminal on 
your operating system.
Now you’re at the command line we can start 
Python. For Python 3 you need to enter the 
command python3 and press Enter. This will put you into the 
command line version of the Shell, with the familiar three right-
facing arrows as the cursor (>>>).
Just as before, 
we’re using a 
Raspberry Pi: Windows users will 
need to click the Start button and 
search for CMD, then click the 
Command Line returned search; 
and macOS users can get access 
to their command line by clicking 
Go > Utilities > Terminal.
From here you’re able to enter the code you’ve 
looked at previously, such as:
a=2 
print(a) 
You can see that it works exactly the same.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Executing Code from 
the Command Line
30
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 31 ---
Now enter: exit() to leave the command line Python 
session and return you back to the command 
prompt. Enter the folder where you saved the code from the 
previous tutorial and list the available files within; hopefully you 
should see the hello.py file.
Naturally, since this is Python 3 code, using the 
syntax and layout that’s unique to Python 3, it only 
works when you use the python3 command. If you like, try the same 
with Python 2 by entering:
python hello.py
From within the same folder as the code you’re 
going to run, enter the following into the 
command line:
python3 hello.py 
This will execute the code we created, which to remind you is:
a=”Python” 
b=”is” 
c=”cool!” 
print(a, b, c)
The result of running Python 3 code from the 
Python 2 command line is quite obvious. Whilst it 
doesn’t error out in any way, due to the differences between the 
way Python 3 handles the Print command over Python 2, the result 
isn’t as we expected. Using Sublime for the moment, open the 
hello.py file.
Save the hello.py file and drop back to the 
command line. Now execute the newly saved 
code with:
python3 hello.py 
The result will be the original Python is cool! statement, together 
with the added input command asking you for your name, and 
displaying it in the command window.
Since Sublime Text isn’t available for the Raspberry 
Pi, you’re going to temporarily leave the Pi for the 
moment and use Sublime as an example that you don’t necessarily 
need to use the Python IDLE. With the hello.py file open, alter it to 
include the following:
name=input(“What is your name? “) 
print(“Hello,”, name)
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
31
www.bdmpublications.com
Executing Code from the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 32 ---
We’ve seen some basic mathematical expressions with Python, simple addition and the 
like. Let’s expand on that now and see just how powerful Python is as a calculator. You 
can work within the IDLE Shell or in the Editor, whichever you like. 
You can get some really impressive results with the mathematical powers of Python; as with most, if not all, programming 
languages, Maths is the driving force behind the code.  
IT’S ALL MATHS, MAN
Open up the GUI version of Python 3, as mentioned 
you can use either the Shell or the Editor. For the 
time being, you’re going to use the Shell just to warm our Maths 
muscle, which we believe is a small gland located at the back of the 
brain (or not).
You can use all the usual Mathematical operations: 
divide, multiply, brackets and so on. Practise with a 
few, for example:
1/2 
6/2 
2+2*3 
(1+2)+(3*4)
In the Shell enter the following:
2+2 
54356+34553245 
99867344*27344484221 
You can see that Python can handle some quite large numbers.
You’ve no doubt noticed, division produces a 
decimal number. In Python these are called floats, 
or floating point arithmetic. However, if you need an integer as 
opposed to a decimal answer, then you can use a double slash:
1//2 
6//2
And so on. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Numbers and Expressions
32
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 33 ---
You can also use an operation to see the remainder 
left over from division. For example:
10/3 
Will display 3.333333333, which is of course 3.3-recurring. If you 
now enter:
10%3
This will display 1, which is the remainder left over from dividing 
10 into 3.
Numbers and expressions don’t stop there. Python 
has numerous built-in functions to work out sets 
of numbers, absolute values, complex numbers and a host of 
mathematical expressions and Pythagorean tongue-twisters. For 
example, to convert a number to binary, use:
bin(3) 
Next up we have the power operator, or 
exponentiation if you want to be technical. To work 
out the power of something you can use a double multiplication 
symbol or double-star on the keyboard:
2**3 
10**10
Essentially, it’s 2x2x2 but we’re sure you already know the basics 
behind Maths operators. This is how you would work it out 
in Python.
This will be displayed as ‘0b11’, converting the 
integer into binary and adding the prefix 0b to the 
front. If you want to remove the 0b prefix, then you can use:
format(3, ‘b’)
The Format command converts a value, the number 3, to a 
formatted representation as controlled by the format specification, 
the ‘b’ part.
Execute the code from Step 9, and you can see a 
series of True or False statements, depending on 
the result of the two defining values: 6 and 7. It’s an extension of 
what you’ve looked at, and an important part of programming.
A Boolean Expression is a logical statement that will 
either be true or false. We can use these to compare 
data and test to see if it’s equal to, less than or greater than. Try this 
in a New File:
a = 6 
b = 7 
print(1, a == 6) 
print(2, a == 7) 
print(3, a == 6 and b == 7) 
print(4, a == 7 and b == 7) 
print(5, not a == 7 and b == 7) 
print(6, a == 7 or b == 7) 
print(7, a == 7 or b == 6) 
print(8, not (a == 7 and b == 6)) 
print(9, not a == 7 and b == 6)
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
33
www.bdmpublications.com
Numbers and Expressions
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 34 ---
When writing your code, the flow of it, what each variable does, how the overall 
program will operate and so on is all inside your head. Another programmer could 
follow the code line by line but over time, it can become difficult to read.
Programmers use a method of keeping their code readable by commenting on certain sections. If a variable is used, the 
programmer comments on what it’s supposed to do, for example. It’s just good practise.   
#COMMENTS!
Start by creating a new instance of the IDLE Editor 
(File > New File) and create a simple variable and 
print command:
a=10 
print(“The value of A is,”, a)
Save the file and execute the code.
Resave the code and execute it. You can see that the 
output in the IDLE Shell is still the same as before, 
despite the extra lines being added. Simply put, the hash symbol (#) 
denotes a line of text the programmer can insert to inform them, 
and others, of what’s going on without the user being aware.
Running the code will return the line: The value of A 
is, 10 into the IDLE Shell window, which is what we 
expected. Now, add some of the types of comments you’d normally 
see within code:
# Set the start value of A to 10 
a=10 
# Print the current value of A 
print(“The value of A is,”, a)
Let’s assume that the variable A that we’ve created 
is the number of lives in a game. Every time the 
player dies, the value is decreased by 1. The programmer could 
insert a routine along the lines of:
a=a-1 
print(“You’ve just lost a life!”) 
print(“You now have”, a, “lives left!”)
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using Comments
34
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 35 ---
Whilst we know that the variable A is lives, and 
that the player has just lost one, a casual viewer or 
someone checking the code may not know. Imagine for a moment 
that the code is twenty thousand lines long, instead of just our 
seven. You can see how handy comments are.
You can use comments in different ways. For 
example, Block Comments are a large section of 
text that details what’s going on in the code, such as telling the code 
reader what variables you’re planning on using:
# This is the best game ever, and has been 
developed by a crack squad of Python experts 
# who haven’t slept or washed in weeks. Despite 
being very smelly, the code at least 
# works really well. 
Essentially, the new code together with comments 
could look like:
# Set the start value of A to 10 
a=10 
# Print the current value of A 
print(“The value of A is,”, a) 
# Player lost a life! 
a=a-1 
# Inform player, and display current value 
of A (lives) 
print(“You’ve just lost a life!”) 
print(“You now have”, a, “lives left!”)
Inline comments are comments that follow a section 
of code. Take our examples from above, instead of 
inserting the code on a separate line, we could use:
a=10 # Set the start value of A to 10 
print(“The value of A is,”, a) # Print the current 
value of A 
a=a-1 # Player lost a life! 
print(“You’ve just lost a life!”) 
print(“You now have”, a, “lives left!”) # Inform 
player, and display current value of A (lives)
You also use three single quotes to comment 
out a Block Comment or multi-line section of 
comments. Place them before and after the areas you want to 
comment for them to work:
‘’’ 
This is the best game ever, and has been developed 
by a crack squad of Python experts who haven’t 
slept or washed in weeks. Despite being very 
smelly, the code at least works really well.   
’’’
The comment, the hash symbol, can also be used to 
comment out sections of code you don’t want to be 
executed in your program. For instance, if you wanted to remove 
the first print statement, you would use:
# print(“The value of A is,”, a)
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
35
www.bdmpublications.com
Using Comments
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 36 ---
We’ve seen some examples of variables in our Python code already but it’s always worth 
going through the way they operate and how Python creates and assigns certain values 
to a variable. 
You’ll be working with the Python 3 IDLE Shell in this tutorial. If you haven’t already, open Python 3 or close down the previous 
IDLE Shell to clear up any old code.
VARIOUS VARIABLES
In some programming languages you’re required 
to use a dollar sign to denote a string, which is a 
variable made up of multiple characters, such as a name of a person. 
In Python this isn’t necessary. For example, in the Shell enter: 
name=”David Hayward” (or use your own name, unless you’re 
also called David Hayward). 
You’ve seen previously that variables can be 
concatenated using the plus symbol between the 
variable names. In our example we can use: print (name + “: 
“ + title). The middle part between the quotations allows us to 
add a colon and a space, as variables are connected without spaces, 
so we need to add them manually.
You can check the type of variable in use by  
issuing the type () command, placing the name of 
the variable inside the brackets. In our example, this would be:  
type (name). Add a new string variable: title=”Descended 
from Vikings”. 
You can also 
combine variables 
within another variable. For 
example, to combine both name 
and title variables into a new 
variable we use: 
character=name + 
“: “ + title
Then output the content of the 
new variable as:
print (character)
Numbers are stored as different 
variables:
age=44 
Type (age)
Which are integers, as we know.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Working with Variables
36
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 37 ---
However, you can’t combine both strings and 
integer type variables in the same command, as you 
would a set of similar variables. You need to either turn one into the 
other or vice versa. When you do try to combine both, you get an 
error message:
print (name + age) 
Another example of TypeCasting is when you 
ask for input from the user, such as a name. for 
example, enter:
age= input (“How old are you? “)
All data stored from the Input command is stored as a 
string variable.
This is a process known as TypeCasting. The 
Python code is:
print (character + “ is “ + str(age) + “ 
years old.”)
or you can use:
print (character, “is“, age, “years old.”)
Notice again that in the last example, you don’t need the spaces 
between the words in quotes as the commas treat each argument 
to print separately.  
This presents a bit of a problem when you want to 
work with a number that’s been inputted by the 
user, as age + 10 won’t work due to being a string variable and an 
integer. Instead, you need to enter:
int(age) + 10
This will TypeCast the age string into an integer that can be 
worked with.
When combining integers and floats Python 
usually converts the integer to a float, but should 
the reverse ever be applied it’s worth remembering that Python 
doesn’t return the exact value. When converting a float to an 
integer, Python will always round down to the nearest integer, 
called truncating; in our case instead of 19.99 it becomes 19.
The use of TypeCasting is also important when 
dealing with floating point arithmetic; remember: 
numbers that have a decimal point in them. For example, enter:
shirt=19.99
Now enter type(shirt) and you’ll see that Python has allocated 
the number as a ‘float’, because the value contains a decimal point.
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
37
www.bdmpublications.com
Working with Variables
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 38 ---
We’ve seen some basic user interaction with the code from a few of the examples 
earlier, so now would be a good time to focus solely on how you would get information 
from the user then store and present it.  
The type of input you want from the user will depend greatly on the type of program you’re coding. For example, a game may 
ask for a character’s name, whereas a database can ask for personal details.  
USER FRIENDLY
If it’s not already, open the Python 3 IDLE Shell, 
and start a New File in the Editor. Let’s begin with 
something really simple, enter:
print(“Hello”) 
firstname=input(“What is your first name? “) 
print(“Thanks.”) 
surname=input(“And what is your surname? “) 
Now that we have the user’s name stored 
in a couple of variables we can call them up 
whenever we want:
print(“Welcome”, firstname, surname, “. I hope 
you’re well today.”)
Save and execute the code, and as you already no 
doubt suspected, in the IDLE Shell the program will 
ask for your first name, storing it as the variable firstname, followed 
by your surname; also stored in its own variable (surname).  
Run the code and you can see a slight issue, the 
full stop after the surname follows a blank space. 
To eliminate that we can add a plus sign instead of the comma 
in the code:
print(“Welcome”, firstname, surname+“. I hope 
you’re well today.”)
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
User Input 
38
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 39 ---
You don’t always have to include quoted text within 
the input command. For example, you can ask the 
user their name, and have the input in the line below:
print(“Hello. What’s your name?”) 
name=input() 
It’s a good start to a text adventure game, perhaps? 
Now you can expand on it and use the raw input 
from the user to flesh out the game a little:
if name==”David”: 
     print(“Welcome, good sir. You may pass.”) 
else: 
    print(“I know you not. Prepare for battle!”) 
The code from the previous step is often regarded 
as being a little neater than having a lengthy 
amount of text in the input command, but it’s not a rule that’s set 
in stone, so do as you like in these situations. Expanding on the 
code, try this:
print(“Halt! Who goes there?”) 
name=input() 
What you’ve created here is a condition, which we 
will cover soon. In short, we’re using the input from 
the user and measuring it against a condition. So, if the user enters 
David as their name, the guard will allow them to pass unhindered. 
Else, if they enter a name other than David, the guard challenges 
them to a fight.
To finalise the rate and distance code, we can add:
distance = float(input(“Distance: “)) 
print(“Time:”, (distance / rate))
Save and execute the code and enter some numbers. Using the 
float(input element, we’ve told Python that anything entered is a 
floating point number rather than a string.
Just as you learned previously, any input from a 
user is automatically a string, so you need to apply a 
TypeCast in order to turn it into something else.  This creates some 
interesting additions to the input command. For example:
# Code to calculate rate and distance 
print(“Input a rate and a distance”) 
rate = float(input(“Rate: “))
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
39
www.bdmpublications.com
User Input
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 40 ---
Now that you’ve mastered the use of variables and user input, the next step is to tackle 
functions. You’ve already used a few functions, such as the print command but Python 
enables you to define your own functions. 
A function is a command that you enter into Python to do something. It’s a little piece of self-contained code that takes data, 
works on it and then returns the result.   
FUNKY FUNCTIONS
It’s not just data that a function works on. They can 
do all manner of useful things in Python, such as 
sort data, change items from one format to another and check the 
length or type of items. Basically, a function is a short word that’s 
followed by brackets. For example, len(), list() or type().
You can pass variables through functions in much 
the same manner. Let’s assume you want the 
number of letters in a person’s surname, you could use the following 
code (enter the text editor for this example):
name=input (“Enter your surname: “) 
count=len(name) 
print (“Your surname has“, count, 
“letters in it.”)
Press F5 and save the code to execute it.
A function takes data, usually a variable, works on 
it depending on what the function is programmed 
to do and returns the end value. The data being worked on goes 
inside the brackets, so if you wanted to know how many letters 
are in the word antidisestablishmentarianism, then you’d enter: 
len(“antidisestablishmentarianism”) and the number 28 
would return.  
Python has tens of functions built into it, far too 
many to get into in the limited space available here. 
However, to view the list of built-in functions available to Python 3, 
navigate to www.docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html. These 
are the predefined functions, but since users have created many 
more, they’re not the only ones available. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Creating Functions 
40
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 41 ---
Additional functions can be added to Python 
through modules. Python has a vast range of 
modules available that can cover numerous programming duties. 
They add functions and can be imported as and when required. For 
example, to use advanced Mathematics functions enter: 
import math 
Once entered, you have access to all the Math module functions.
To use a function from a module enter the name of 
the module followed by a full stop, then the name 
of the function. For instance, using the math module, since you’ve 
just imported it into Python, you can utilise the square root function. 
To do so, enter:
math.sqrt(16)
You can see that the code is presented as module.function(data).
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
There are many different functions you can import created by other Python programmers and you will undoubtedly come 
across some excellent examples in the future; you can also create your own with the def command.
FORGING FUNCTIONS
Choose File > New File to enter the editor, let’s 
create a function called Hello, that greets a 
user. Enter:
def Hello(): 
       print (“Hello”)
Hello()
Press F5 to save and run the script. You can see Hello in the Shell, 
type in Hello() and it returns the new function. 
Let’s now expand the function to accept a 
variable, the user’s name for example. Edit your 
script to read:
def Hello(name): 
       print (“Hello”, name)
Hello(“David”)
This will now accept the variable name, otherwise it prints Hello 
David. In the Shell, enter: name=(“Bob”), then: Hello(name). Your 
function can now pass variables through it.
To modify it further, delete the Hello(“David”) line, 
the last line in the script and press Ctrl+S to save 
the new script. Close the Editor and create a new file (File > New 
File). Enter the following:
from Hello import Hello
Hello(“David”)
Press F5 to save and execute the code. 
What you’ve just done is import the Hello function 
from the saved Hello.py program and then used it 
to say hello to David. This is how modules and functions work: you 
import the module then use the function. Try this one, and modify 
it for extra credit:
def add(a, b):
   result = a + b 
   return result 
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
41
www.bdmpublications.com
Creating Functions
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 42 ---
Conditions and loops are what makes a program interesting; they can be simple or 
rather complex. How you use them depends greatly on what the program is trying to 
achieve; they could be the number of lives left in a game or just displaying a countdown. 
Keeping conditions simple to begin with makes learning to program a more enjoyable experience. Let’s start then by checking 
if something is TRUE, then doing something else if it isn’t.
TRUE CONDITIONS
Let’s create a new Python program that will ask 
the user to input a word, then check it to see if it’s 
a four-letter word or not. Start with File > New File, and begin with 
the input variable:
word=input(“Please enter a four-letter word: “)
Now you can use an if statement to check if the 
word_length variable is equal to four and print a 
friendly conformation if it applies to the rule:
word=input(“Please enter a four-letter word: “) 
word_length=len(word) 
if word_length == 4: 
       print (word, “is a four-letter word. Well done.”)
The double equal sign (==) means check if something is equal to 
something else. 
Now we can create a new variable, then use the len 
function and pass the word variable through it to 
get the total number of letters the user has just entered:
word=input(“Please enter a four-letter word: “) 
word_length=len(word) 
The colon at the end of IF tells Python that if this 
statement is true do everything after the colon 
that’s indented. Next, move the cursor back to the beginning of 
the Editor:
word=input(“Please enter a four-letter word: “) 
word_length=len(word) 
if word_length == 4: 
      print (word, “is a four-letter word. 
Well done.”) 
else: 
       print (word, “is not a four-letter word.”) 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Conditions and Loops 
42
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 43 ---
Press F5 and save the code to execute it. Enter 
a four-letter word in the Shell to begin with, you 
should have the returned message that it’s the word is four letters. 
Now press F5 again  and rerun the program but this time enter a 
five-letter word. The Shell will display that it’s not a four-letter word. 
Now expand the code to include another conditions. 
Eventually, it could become quite complex. We’ve 
added a condition for three-letter words:
word=input(“Please enter a four-letter word: “) 
word_length=len(word) 
if word_length == 4: 
       print (word, “is a four-letter word. 
Well done.”) 
elif word_length == 3: 
       print (word, “is a three-letter word. Try again.”) 
else: 
       print (word, “is not a four-letter word.”) 
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
A loop looks quite similar to a condition but they are somewhat different in their operation. A loop will run through the same 
block of code a number of times, usually with the support of a condition.
LOOPS
Step 1 – Let’s start with a simple While statement. 
Like IF, this will check to see if something is TRUE, 
then run the indented code:
x = 1 
while x < 10: 
     print (x) 
     x = x + 1 
The difference between if and while is when while 
gets to the end of the indented code, it goes back 
and checks the statement is still true. In our example x is less than 
10. With each loop it prints the current value of x, then adds one to 
that value. When x does eventually equal 10 it stops.
The For loop is another example. For is used to 
loop over a range of data, usually a list stored as 
variables inside square brackets. For example:
words=[“Cat”, “Dog”, “Unicorn”]
for word in words: 
      print (word)
The For loop can also be used in the countdown 
example by using the range function:
for x in range (1, 10): 
print (x)
The x=x+1 part isn’t needed here because the range function 
creates a list between the first and last numbers used.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
43
www.bdmpublications.com
Conditions and Loops
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 44 ---
We’ve mentioned modules previously, (the Math module) but as modules are such a 
large part of getting the most from Python, it’s worth dedicating a little more time to 
them. In this instance we’re using the Windows version of Python 3.
Think of modules as an extension that’s imported into your Python code to enhance and extend its capabilities. There are 
countless modules available and as we’ve seen, you can even make your own. 
MASTERING MODULES
Although good, the built-in functions within Python 
are limited. The use of modules, however, allows us 
to make more sophisticated programs. As you are aware, modules 
are Python scripts that are imported, such as import math.
The result is an error in the IDLE Shell, as the 
pygame module isn’t recognised or installed in 
Python. To install a module we can use PIP (Pip Installs Packages). 
Close down the IDLE Shell and drop into a command prompt or 
Terminal session. At an elevated admin command prompt, enter:
pip install pygame
Some modules, especially on the Raspberry Pi, 
are included by default, the math module being a 
prime example. Sadly, other modules aren’t always available. A good 
example on non-Pi platforms is the pygame module, which contains 
many functions to help create games. Try: import pygame.
The PIP installation requires an elevated status 
due it installing components at different locations. 
Windows users can search for CMD via the Start button and right-
click the result then click Run as Administrator. Linux and Mac users 
can use the Sudo command, with sudo pip install package. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Python Modules 
44
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 45 ---
Close the command prompt or Terminal and 
relaunch the IDLE Shell. When you now enter: 
import pygame, the module will be imported into the code 
without any problems. You’ll find that most code downloaded or 
copied from the internet will contain a module, mainstream of 
unique, these are usually the source of errors in execution due to 
them being missing.
This code, when saved and executed, will display ten 
random numbers from 1 to 25. You can play around 
with the code to display more or less, and from a great or lesser 
range. For example:
import random
for i in range(25): 
    print(random.randint(1, 100))
The modules contain the extra code needed to 
achieve a certain result within your own code, as 
we’ve previously experimented with. For example:
import random 
Brings in the code from the random number generator module. You 
can then use this module to create something like:
for i in range(10): 
    print(random.randint(1, 25))
Multiple modules can be imported within your code. 
To extend our example, use:
import random 
import math
for I in range(5): 
    print(random.randint(1, 25))
print(math.pi)
This helps create a more streamlined approach to 
programming. You can also use import module*, 
which will import everything defined within the named module. 
However, it’s often regarded as a waste of resources but it works 
nonetheless. Finally, modules can be imported as aliases:
import math as m
print(m.pi)
Of course, adding comments helps to tell others what’s going on.
The result is a string of random numbers followed 
by the value of Pi as pulled from the math 
module using the print(math.pi) function. You can also pull in 
certain functions from a module by using the from and import 
commands, such as:
from random import randint
for i in range(5): 
    print(randint(1, 25))
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
45
www.bdmpublications.com
Python Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 46 ---
It goes without saying that you’ll eventually come across an error in your code, where 
Python declares it’s not able to continue due to something being missed out, wrong or 
simply unknown. Being able to identify these errors makes for a good programmer. 
Errors in code are called bugs and are perfectly normal. They can often be easily rectified with a little patience. The important 
thing is to keep looking, experimenting and testing. Eventually your code will be bug free.  
DEBUGGING
Code isn’t as fluid as the written word, no matter 
how good the programming language is. Python is 
certainly easier than most languages but even it is prone to some 
annoying bugs. The most common are typos by the user and whilst 
easy to find in simple dozen-line code, imagine having to debug 
multi-thousand line code.
Thankfully Python is helpful when it comes to 
displaying error messages. When you receive an 
error, in red text from the IDLE Shell, it will define the error itself 
along with the line number where the error has occurred. Whilst in 
the IDLE Editor this is a little daunting for lots of code; text editors 
help by including line numbering.
The most common of errors is the typo, as we’ve 
mentioned. The typos are often at the command 
level: mistyping the print command for example. However, they also 
occur when you have numerous variables, all of which have lengthy 
names. The best advice is to simply go through the code and check 
your spelling. 
Syntax errors are probably the second most 
common errors you’ll come across as a programmer. 
Even if the spelling is correct, the actual command itself is wrong. 
In Python 3 this often occurs when Python 2 syntaxes are applied. 
The most annoying of these is the print function. In Python 3 we use 
print(“words”), whereas Python2 uses print “words”. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Python Errors 
46
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 47 ---
Pesky brackets are also a nuisance in programming 
errors, especially when you have something like:
print(balanced_check(input()))  
Remember that for every ‘(‘ there must be an equal number of ‘)’.
Indents are a nasty part of Python programming 
that a lot of beginners fall foul of. Recall the If loop 
from the Conditions and Loops section, where the colon means 
everything indented following the statement is to be executed as 
long as it’s true? Missing the indent, or having too much of indent, 
will come back with an error. 
There are thousands of online Python resources, 
code snippets and lengthy discussions across forums 
on how best to achieve something. Whilst 99 per cent of it is good 
code, don’t always be lured into copying and pasting random code 
into your editor. More often than not, it won’t work and the worst 
part is that you haven’t learnt anything.  
An excellent way to check your code step-by-step  
is to use Python Tutor’s Visualise web page, found 
at www.pythontutor.com/visualize.html#mode=edit. Simply  
paste your code into the editor and click the Visualise Execution 
button to run the code line-by-line. This helps to clear bugs and  
any misunderstandings. 
Purely out of interest, the word debugging in 
computing terms comes from Admiral Grace 
Hopper, who back in the ‘40s was working on a monolithic Harvard 
Mark II electromechanical computer. According to legend Hopper 
found a moth stuck in a relay, thus stopping the system from 
working. Removal of the moth was hence called debugging. 
Planning makes for good code. Whilst a little old 
school, it’s a good habit to plan what your code 
will do before sitting down to type it out. List the variables that will 
be used and the modules too; then write out a script for any user 
interaction or outputs. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
47
www.bdmpublications.com
Python Errors
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 48 ---
We’ve reached the end of this section so let’s take a moment to combine everything 
we’ve looked at so far, and apply it to writing a piece of code. This code can then be used 
and inserted into your own programs in future, either part of it or as a whole.  
You can save and execute the code at this point if 
you like. The output will print the value of Pi to 27 
decimal places: 3.141592653589734207668453591. Whilst pretty 
impressive on its own, you want some user interaction, to ask the 
user as to how many places Pi should be calculated. 
You can insert an input line before the Pi calculation 
Def command. It needs to be an integer, as it will 
otherwise default to a string. We can call it numberofdigits and use 
the getcontext function:
numberofdigits = int(input(“please enter the 
number of decimal place to calculate Pi to: “)) 
getcontext().prec = numberofdigits 
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
For this example we’re going to create a program that will calculate the value of Pi to a set number of decimal places, as 
described by the user. It combines much of what we’ve learnt, and a little more.  
PLAYING WITH PI
Start by opening Python and creating a New File in 
the Editor. First we need to get hold of an equation 
that can accurately calculate Pi without rendering the computer’s 
CPU useless for several minutes. The recommended calculation  
used in such circumstances is the Chudnovsky Algorithm, you 
can find more information about it at en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Chudnovsky_algorithm.
Now you can insert the Pi calculation algorithm  
part of the code. This is a version of the  
Chudnovsky Algorithm:
def calc(n): 
    t = Decimal(0) 
    pi = Decimal(0) 
    deno = Decimal(0) 
    k = 0 
    for k in range(n): 
        t = (Decimal(-1)**k)*(math.factorial 
(Decimal(6)*k))*(13591409 +545140134*k) 
        deno = math.factorial(3*k)*(math.
factorial(k)**Decimal(3))*(640320**(3*k)) 
        pi += Decimal(t)/Decimal(deno) 
    pi = pi * Decimal(12)/Decimal(640320**Decimal(1.5)) 
    pi = 1/pi 
    return str(pi)
You can utilise the Chudnovsky Algorithm to create 
your own Python script based on the calculation. 
Begin by importing some important modules and functions within 
the modules:
from decimal import Decimal, getcontext 
import math
This uses the decimal and getcontext functions from the decimal 
module, both of which deal with large decimal place numbers and 
naturally the math module.
The previous step defines the rules that make 
up the algorithm and creates the string that will 
eventually display the value of Pi, according the Chudnovsky 
brothers’ algorithm. You have no doubt already surmised that it 
would be handy to actually output the value of Pi to the screen. To 
rectify that you can add:
print(calc(1)) 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Combining What 
You Know So Far
48
Getting Started with Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 49 ---
You can execute the code now and it asks the user 
how many decimal places they want to calculate Pi 
to, outputting the result in the IDLE Shell. Try it with 1000 places 
but don’t go too high or else your computer will be locked up in 
calculating Pi. 
Part of programming is being 
able to modify code, making 
it more presentable. Let’s include an element 
that times how long it takes our computer to 
calculate the Pi decimal places and present 
the information in a different colour. For this, 
drop into the command line and import the 
colorama module (RPi users already have it 
installed):
pip install colorama 
To finish our code, we need to initialise the 
colorama module and start the time function at 
the point where the calculation starts, and when it finishes. The end 
result is a coloured ink displaying how long the process took (in the 
Terminal or command line):
from decimal import Decimal, getcontext 
import math 
import time 
import colorama 
from colorama import Fore 
colorama.init()
numberofdigits = int(input(“please enter the number 
of decimal places to calculate Pi to: “)) 
getcontext().prec = numberofdigits
start_time = time.time() 
def calc(n): 
    t = Decimal(0) 
    pi = Decimal(0) 
    deno = Decimal(0) 
    k = 0 
    for k in range(n): 
        t = (Decimal(-1)**k)*(math.
factorial(Decimal(6)*k))*(13591409+545140134*k) 
        deno = math.factorial(3*k)*(math.
factorial(k)**Decimal(3))*(640320**(3*k)) 
        pi += Decimal(t)/Decimal(deno) 
    pi = pi * Decimal(12)/
Decimal(640320**Decimal(1.5)) 
    pi = 1/pi 
    return str(pi)
print(calc(1)) 
print(Fore.RED + “\nTime taken:”, time.time() - 
start_time) 
Now we need to import the colorama module 
(which will output text in different colours) along 
with the Fore function (which dictates the foreground, ink, colour) 
and the time module to start a virtual stopwatch to see how long 
our calculations take:
import time 
import colorama 
from colorama import Fore 
  STEP 7
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
49
www.bdmpublications.com
Combining What You Know So Far
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 50 ---
Working 
with Data
50
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 51 ---
Data is everything. With it you can 
display, control, add, remove, create 
and manipulate Python to your every 
demand. Over these coming pages we 
look at how you can create lists, tuples, 
dictionaries, multi-dimensional lists 
and how you can use them to forge 
exciting and useful programs.
We take a look at how you can use date 
and time functions, write to files in 
your system and even create graphical 
user interfaces that will take your 
coding skills to new levels.
52	
Lists 
54	
Tuples 
56	
Dictionaries 
58	
Splitting and Joining Strings
60	
Formatting Strings 
62	
Date and Time
64	
Opening Files
66	
Writing to Files 
68	
Exceptions 
70	
Python Graphics 
72	
Combining What You Know So Far
51
www.bdmpublications.com
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 52 ---
Lists are one of the most common types of data structures you will comes across in 
Python. A list is simply a collection of items, or data if you prefer, that can be accessed as 
a whole, or individually if wanted.
Lists are extremely handy in Python. A list can be strings, integers and also variables. You can even include functions in lists, 
and lists within lists.  
WORKING WITH LISTS
A list is a sequence of data values called items. You 
create the name of your list followed by an equals 
sign, then square brackets and the items separated by commas; 
note that strings use quotes:
numbers = [1, 4, 7, 21, 98, 156] 
mythical_creatures – [“Unicorn”, “Balrog”, 
“Vampire”, “Dragon”, “Minotaur”]
You can also access, or index, the last item in a list by 
using the minus sign before the item number [-1], 
or the second to last item with [-2] and so on. Trying to reference an 
item that isn’t in the list, such as [10] will return an error:
numbers[-1] 
mythical_creatures[-4]
Once you’ve defined your list you can call each 
by referencing its name, followed by a number. 
Lists start the first item entry as 0, followed by 1, 2, 3 and so on. 
For example:
numbers
To call up the entire contents of the list.
numbers[3]
To call the third from zero item in the list (21 in this case). 
Slicing is similar to indexing but you can retrieve 
multiple items in a list by separating item numbers 
with a colon. For example:
numbers[1:3]
Will output the 4 and 7, being item numbers 1 and 2. Note that the 
returned values don’t include the second index position (as you 
would numbers[1:3] to return 4, 7 and 21). 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Lists 
52
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 53 ---
You can update items within an existing list, remove 
items and even join lists together. For example, to 
join two lists you can use:
everything = numbers + mythical_creatures 
Then view the combined list with:
everything
Removal of items can be done in two ways. The first 
is by the item number:
del numbers[7]
Alternatively, by item name:
mythical_creatures.remove(“Nessie”) 
Items can be added to a list by entering:
numbers=numbers+[201]
Or for strings:
mythical_creatres=mythical_creatures+[“Griffin”]
Or by using the append function:
mythical_creatures.append(“Nessie”) 
numbers.append(278) 
You can view what can be done with lists by entering 
dir(list) into the Shell. The output is the available 
functions, for example, insert and pop are used to add and remove 
items at certain positions. To insert the number 62 at item index 4:
numbers.insert(4, 62)
To remove it:
numbers.pop(4)
Based on that, you can create a program to store 
someone’s name and age as a list:
name=input(“What’s your name? “) 
lname=list(name) 
age=int(input(“How old are you: “)) 
lage=[age]
user = lname + lage 
The combined name and age list is called user, which can be called 
by entering user into the Shell. Experiment and see what you can do.
You also use the list function to break a string down 
into its components. For example:
list(“David”)
Breaks the name David into ‘D’, ‘a’, ‘v’, ‘i’, ‘d’. This can then be passed 
to a new list:
name=list(“David Hayward”) 
name 
age=[44] 
user = name + age 
user
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
53
www.bdmpublications.com
Lists
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 54 ---
Tuples are very much identical to lists. However, where lists can be updated, deleted or 
changed in some way, a tuple remains a constant. This is called immutable and they’re 
perfect for storing fixed data items.
Reasons for having tuples vary depending on what the program is intended to do. Normally, a tuple is reserved for something 
special but they’re also used for example, in an adventure game, where non-playing character names are stored.  
THE IMMUTABLE TUPLE
A tuple is created the same way as a list but in this 
instance you use curved brackets instead of square 
brackets. For example:
months=(“January”, “February”, “March”, “April”, 
“May”, “June”) 
months
You can create grouped tuples into lists that contain 
multiple sets of data. For instance, here is a tuple 
called NPC (Non-Playable Characters) containing the character name 
and their combat rating for an adventure game:
NPC=[(“Conan”, 100), (“Belit”, 80), 
(“Valeria”, 95)]
Just as with lists, the items within a named tuple can 
be indexed according to their position in the data 
range, i.e.:
months[0] 
months[5]
However, any attempt at deleting or adding to the tuple will result 
in an error in the Shell.
Each of these data items can be accessed as a 
whole by entering NPC into the Shell; or they can be 
indexed according to their position NPC[0]. You can also index the 
individual tuples within the NPC list:
NPC[0][1]
Will display 100.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Tuples 
54
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 55 ---
t’s worth noting that when referencing multiple 
tuples within a list, the indexing is slightly different 
from the norm. You would expect the 95 combat rating of the 
character Valeria to be NPC[4][5], but it’s not. It’s actually:
NPC[2][1]
Tuples though utilise a feature called unpacking, 
where the data items stored within a tuple are 
assigned variables. First create the tuple with two items (name and 
combat rating):
NPC=(“Conan”, 100)
This means of course that the indexing follows thus:
Which as you can imagine, gets a little confusing when you’ve got a 
lot of tuple data to deal with.
Now unpack the tuple into two  
corresponding variables:
(name, combat_rating)=NPC
You can now check the values by entering name and combat_rating.
You can use the max and min functions to find the 
highest and lowest values of a tuple composed of 
numbers. For example:
numbers=(10.3, 23, 45.2, 109.3, 6.1, 56.7, 99)
The numbers can be integers and floats. To output the highest and 
lowest, use:
print(max(numbers)) 
print(min(numbers))
Remember, as with lists, you can also index tuples 
using negative numbers which count backwards 
from the end of the data list. For our example, using the tuple with 
multiple data items, you would reference the Valeria character with:
NPC[2][-0]
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
0 
0, 0 
0, 1 
1 
1, 0 
1, 1 
2 
2, 0 
2,1
55
www.bdmpublications.com
Tuples
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 56 ---
Lists are extremely useful but dictionaries in Python are by far the more technical way 
of dealing with data items. They can be tricky to get to grips with at first but you’ll soon 
be able to apply them to your own code. 
A dictionary is like a list but instead each data item comes as a pair, these are known as Key and Value. The Key part must be 
unique and can either be a number or string whereas the Value can be any data item you like.  
KEY PAIRS
Let’s say you want to create a phonebook in Python. 
You would create the dictionary name and enter 
the data in curly brackets, separating the key and value by a colon 
Key:Value. For example:
phonebook={“Emma”: 1234, “Daniel”: 3456, 
“Hannah”: 6789}
As with lists and tuples, you can check the contents 
of a dictionary by giving the dictionary a name: 
phonebook, in this example. This will display the data items you’ve 
entered in a similar fashion to a list, which you’re no doubt familiar 
with by now.
Just as with most lists, tuples and so on, strings 
need be enclosed in quotes (single or double), whilst 
integers can be left open. Remember that the value can be either 
a string or an integer, you just need to enclose the relevant one 
in quotes:
phonebook2={“David”: “0987 654 321”}
The benefit of using a dictionary is that you 
can enter the key to index the value. Using the 
phonebook example from the previous steps, you can enter:
phonebook[“Emma”] 
phonebook[“Hannah”] 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Dictionaries 
56
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 57 ---
Adding to a dictionary is easy too. You can include 
a new data item entry by adding the new key and 
value items like:
phonebook[“David”] = “0987 654 321” 
phonebook 
Taking this a step further, how about creating a 
piece of code that will ask the user for the dictionary 
key and value items? Create a new Editor instance and start by 
coding in a new, blank dictionary:
phonebook={}
You can also remove items from a dictionary by 
issuing the del command followed by the item’s 
key; the value will be removed as well, since both work as a pair of 
data items:
del phonebook[“David”]
Next, you need to define the user inputs and 
variables: one for the person’s name, the other 
for their phone number (let’s keep it simple to avoid lengthy 
Python code):
name=input(“Enter name: “) 
number=int(input(“Enter phone number: “))
Now when you save and execute the code, Python 
will ask for a name and a number. It will then insert 
those entries into the phonebook dictionary, which you can test by 
entering into the Shell:
phonebook 
phonebook[“David”]
If the number needs to contain spaces you need to make it a string, 
so remove the int part of the input.
Note we’ve kept the number as an integer instead 
of a string, even though the value can be both 
an integer or a string. Now you need to add the user’s inputted 
variables to the newly created blank dictionary. Using the same 
process as in Step 5, you can enter:
phonebook[name] = number 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
57
www.bdmpublications.com
Dictionaries
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 58 ---
When dealing with data in Python, especially from a user’s input, you will undoubtedly 
come across long sets of strings. A useful skill to learn in Python programming is being 
able to split those long strings for better readability.  
You’ve already looked at some list functions, using .insert, .remove, and .pop but there are also functions that can be applied 
to strings.  
STRING THEORIES
The main tool in the string function arsenal is .split(). 
With it you’re able to split apart a string of data, 
based on the argument within the brackets. For example, here’s a 
string with three items, each separated by a space:
text=”Daniel Hannah Emma”
Note that the text.split part has the brackets, 
quotes, then a space followed by closing quotes 
and brackets. The space is the separator, indicating that each list 
item entry is separated by a space. Likewise, CSV (Comma Separated 
Value) content has a comma, so you’d use:
text=”January,February,March,April,May,June” 
months=text.split(“,”) 
months
Now let’s turn the string into a list and split the 
content accordingly:
names=text.split(“ “)
Then enter the name of the new list, names, to see the three items.
You’ve previously seen how you can split a string 
into individual letters as a list, using a name:
name=list(“David”) 
name
The returned value is ‘D’, ‘a’, ‘v’, ‘i’, ‘d’. Whilst it may seem a little 
useless under ordinary circumstances, it could be handy for creating 
a spelling game for example.  
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Splitting and 
Joining Strings
58
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 59 ---
The opposite of the .split function is .join, where 
you will have separate items in a string and can join 
them all together to form a word or just a combination of items, 
depending on the program you’re writing. For instance:
alphabet=””.join([“a”,”b”,”c”,”d”,”e”]) 
alphabet
This will display ‘abcde’ in the Shell.
A good example of using the .join function is when 
you have a list of words you want to combine into 
a sentence:
list=[“Conan”, “raised”, “his”, “mighty”, “sword”, 
“and”, “struck”, “the”, “demon”] 
text=” “.join(list) 
text
Note the space between the quotes before the .join function (where 
there were no quotes in Step 6’s .join). 
You can therefore apply .join to the separated name 
you made in Step 4, combining the letters again to 
form the name:
name=””.join(name) 
name
We’ve joined the string back together, and retained the list called 
name, passing it through the .join function.
As with the .split function, the separator doesn’t 
have to be a space, it can also be a comma,  a full 
stop, a hyphen or whatever you like:
colours=[“Red”, “Green”, “Blue”] 
col=”,”.join(colours) 
col
You can also use logic operators on strings,  
with the ‘in’ and ‘not in’ functions. These enable 
you to check if a string contains (or does not contain) a sequence  
of characters:
message=”Have a nice day” 
“nice” in message
”bad” not in message 
“day” not in message 
“night” in message
There’s some interesting functions you apply to a 
string, such as .capitalize and .title. For example:
title=”conan the cimmerian” 
title.capitalize() 
title.title()
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
59
www.bdmpublications.com
Splitting and Joining Strings
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 60 ---
When you work with data, creating lists, dictionaries and objects you may often want 
to print out the results. Merging strings with data is easy especially with Python 3, as 
earlier versions of Python tended to complicate matters. 
Since Python 3, string formatting has become a much neater process, using the .format function combined with curly brackets. 
It’s a more logical and better formed approach than previous versions.
STRING FORMATTING
The basic formatting in Python is to call each 
variable into the string using the curly brackets:
name=”Conan” 
print(“The barbarian hero of the Hyborian Age is: 
{}”.format(name))
You can of course also include integers into the mix:
number=10000 
print(“{} of {} was a skilled mercenary, 
and thief too. He once stole {} gold from a 
merchant.”.format(name, place, number))
Remember to close the print function with two sets 
of brackets, as you’ve encased the variable in one, 
and the print function in another. You can include multiple cases of 
string formatting in a single print function:
name=”Conan” 
place=”Cimmeria” 
print(“{} hailed from the North, in a cold land 
known as {}”.format(name, place)) 
There are many different ways to apply string 
formatting, some are quite simple, as we’ve shown 
you here; others can be significantly more complex. It all depends 
on what you want from your program. A good place to reference 
frequently regarding string formatting is the Python Docs webpage, 
found at www.docs.python.org/3.1/library/string.html. Here, you 
will find tons of help.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Formatting Strings 
60
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 61 ---
Interestingly you can reference a list using the string 
formatting function. You need to place an asterisk in 
front of the list name:
numbers=1, 3, 45, 567546, 3425346345 
print(“Some numbers: {}, {}, {}, {}, {}”.
format(*numbers))
And as you probably suspect, you can mix strings 
and integers in a single list to be called in the 
.format function:
characters=[“Conan”, “Belit”, “Valeria”, 
19, 27, 20] 
print (“{0} is {3} years old. Whereas {1} is {4} 
years old.”.format(*characters)) 
With indexing in lists, the same applies to calling a 
list using string formatting. You can index each item 
according to its position (from 0 to however many are present):
numbers=1, 4, 7, 9 
print(“More numbers: {3}, {0}, {2}, 
{1}.”.format(*numbers)) 
You can also print out the content of a user’s input 
in the same fashion:
name=input(“What’s your name? “) 
print(“Hello {}.”.format(name)
You can also call upon a pair of lists and reference 
them individually within the same print function. 
Looking back the code from Step 7, you can alter it with:
names=[“Conan”, “Belit”, “Valeria”] 
ages=[25, 21, 22]
Creating two lists. Now you can call each list, and individual items:
print(“{0[0]} is {1[0]} years old. Whereas {0[1]} 
is {1[1]} years old.”.format(names, ages))
You can extend this simple code example to display 
the first letter in a person’s entered name:
name=input(“What’s your name? “) 
print(“Hello {}.”.format(name)) 
lname=list(name) 
print(“The first letter of your name is a {0}”.
format(*lname))
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
61
www.bdmpublications.com
Formatting Strings
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 62 ---
When working with data it’s often handy to have access to the time. For example, you 
may want to time-stamp an entry or see at what time a user logged into the system and 
for how long. Luckily acquiring the date and time is easy, thanks to the Time module. 
The time module contains functions that help you retrieve the current system time, reads the date from strings, formats the 
time and date and much more.  
TIME LORDS
First you need to import the time module. It’s one 
that’s built-in to Python 3 so you shouldn’t need to 
drop into a command prompt and pip install it. Once it’s imported, 
you can call the current time and date with a simple command:
import time 
time.asctime()
You can see the structure of how time is presented 
by entering:
time.local.time()
The output is displayed as such: ‘time.struct_time(tm_
year=2017, tm_mon=9, tm_mday=7, tm_hour=9, 
tm_min=6, tm_sec=13, tm_wday=3, tm_yday=250, tm_
isdst=0)’; obviously dependent on your current time as opposed 
to the time this book was written.
The time function is split into nine tuples, these are 
divided up into indexed items, as with any other 
tuple, and shown in the screen shot below.
There are numerous functions built into the time 
module. One of the most common of these is 
.strftime(). With it, you’re able to present a wide range of arguments 
as it converts the time tuple into a string. For example, to display the 
current day of the week you can use:
time.strftime(‘%A’)
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Date and Time
62
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 63 ---
This naturally means you can incorporate various 
functions into your own code, such as:
time.strftime(“%a”) 
time.strftime(“%B”) 
time.strftime(“%b”) 
time.strftime(“%H”) 
time.strftime(“%H%M”)
This means you’re going to be able to display either 
the current time or the time when something 
occurred, such as a user entering their name. Try this code in 
the Editor:
import time 
name=input(“Enter login name: “) 
print(“Welcome”, name, “\d”) 
print(“User:”, name, “logged in at”, time.
strftime(“%H:%M”))
Try to extend it further to include day, month, year and so on. 
Note the last two entries, with %H and %H%M, as 
you can see these are the hours and minutes and as 
the last entry indicates, entering them as %H%M doesn’t display the 
time correctly in the Shell. You can easily rectify this with:
time.strftime(“%H:%M”) 
You saw at the end of the previous section, in the 
code to calculate Pi to however many decimal places 
the users wanted, you can time a particular event in Python. Take 
the code from above and alter it slightly by including:
start_time=time.time()
Then there’s:
endtime=time.time()-start_time
There’s a lot that can be done with the time 
module; some of it is quite complex too, such as 
displaying the number of seconds since January 1st 1970. If you 
want to drill down further into the time module, then in the Shell 
enter: help(time) to display the current Python version help file 
for the time module. 
The output will look similar to the screenshot below. 
The timer function needs to be either side of the 
input statement, as that’s when the variable name is being created, 
depending on how long the user took to login. The length of time is 
then displayed on the last line of the code as the endtime variable. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
63
www.bdmpublications.com
Date and Time
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 64 ---
In Python you can read text and binary files in your programs. You can also write to file, 
which is something we will look at next. Reading and writing to files enables you to 
output and store data from your programs. 
In Python you create a file object, similar to creating a variable, only pass in the file using the open() function. Files are usually 
categorised as text or binary.  
OPEN, READ AND WRITE
Start by entering some text into your system’s text 
editor. The text editor is best, not a word processor, 
as word processors include background formatting and other 
elements. In our example, we have the poem The Cimmerian, by 
Robert E Howard. You need to save the file as poem.txt.
If you now enter poem into the Shell, you will get 
some information regarding the text file you’ve just 
asked to be opened. You can now use the poem variable to read the 
contents of the file:
poem.read() 
Note than a /n entry in the text represents a new line, as you  
used previously.
You use the open() function to pass the file into a 
variable as an object. You can name the file object 
anything you like, but you will need to tell Python the name and 
location of the text file you’re opening:
poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/Poem.txt”) 
If you enter poem.read() a second time you will 
notice that the text has been removed from the file. 
You will need to enter: poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/
Poem.txt”) again to recreate the file. This time, however, enter:
print(poem.read()) 
This time, the /n entries are removed in favour of new lines and 
readable text.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Opening Files
64
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 65 ---
Just as with lists, tuples, dictionaries and so on, 
you’re able to index individual characters of the 
text. For example:
poem.read(5)
Displays the first five characters, whilst again entering:
poem.read(5)
Will display the next five. Entering (1) will display one character 
at a time.
You may have guessed that you can pass the 
readline() function into a variable, thus allowing you 
to call it again when needed:
poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/Poem.txt”) 
line=poem.readline() 
line 
Similarly, you can display one line of text at a time by 
using the readline() function. For example:
poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/Poem.txt”) 
poem.readline()
Will display the first line of the text with:
poem.readline()
Displaying the next line of text once more.
Extending this further, you can use readlines() to 
grab all the lines of the text and store them as 
multiple lists. These can then be stored as a variable:
poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/Poem.txt”) 
lines=poem.readlines() 
lines[0] 
lines[1] 
lines[2]
Let’s imagine that you want to print the text one 
character at a time, like an old dot matrix printer 
would. You can use the time module mixed with what you’ve looked 
at here. Try this:
import time 
poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/Poem.txt”) 
lines=poem.read() 
for lines in lines: 
    print(lines, end=””) 
    time.sleep(.15)
The output is fun to view, and easily incorporated into 
your own code.
You can also use the for statement to read the lines 
of text back to us:
for lines in lines: 
       print(lines)
Since this is Python, there are other ways to produce the 
same output:
poem=open(“/home/pi/Documents/Poem.txt”) 
for lines in poem: 
       print(lines)
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
65
www.bdmpublications.com
Opening Files
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 66 ---
The ability to read external files within Python is certainly handy but writing to a file is 
better still. Using the write() function, you’re able to output the results of a program to 
a file, that you can then read() back into Python.
The write() function is slightly more complex than read(). Along with the filename you must also include an access mode which 
determines whether the file in question is in read or write mode. 
WRITE AND CLOSE
Start by opening IDLE and enter the following:
t=open(“/home/pi/Documents/
text.txt”,”w”)
Change the destination from /home/pi/Documents to your own 
system. This code will create a text file called text.txt in write mode 
using the variable ‘t’. If there’s no file of that name in the location, it 
will create one. If one already exits, it will overwrite it, so be careful.
However, the actual text file is still blank (you can 
check by opening it up). This is because you’ve 
written the line of text to the file object but not committed it to the 
file itself. Part of the write() function is that you need to commit the 
changes to the file; you can do this by entering:
t.close()
You can now write to the text file using the write() 
function. This works opposite to read(), writing lines 
instead of reading them. Try this:
t.write(“You awake in a small, square room. A 
single table stands to one side, there is a locked 
door in front of you.”)
Note the 109. It’s the number of characters you’ve entered.
If you now open the text file with a text editor, 
you can see that the line you created has been 
written to the file. This gives us the foundation for some interesting 
possibilities: perhaps the creation of your own log file or even the 
beginning of an adventure game. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Writing to Files 
66
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 67 ---
To expand this code, you can reopen the file using 
‘a’, for access or append mode. This will add any text 
at the end of the original line instead of wiping the file and creating 
a new one. For example:
t=open(“/home/pi/Documents/text.txt”,”a”) 
t.write(“\n”) 
t.write(“ You stand and survey your surroundings. 
On top of the table is some meat, and a cup of 
water.\n”)
There are various types of file access to consider 
using the open() function. Each depends on how 
the file is accessed and even the position of the cursor. For example, 
r+ opens a file in read and write and places the cursor at the start 
of the file.
You can keep extending the text line by line, ending 
each with a new line (\n). When you’re done, finish 
the code with t.close() and open the file in a text editor to see 
the results:
t.write(“The door is made of solid oak with iron 
strips. It’s bolted from the outside, locking you 
in. You are a prisoner!.\n”)  
t.close()
You can pass variables to a file that you’ve created 
in Python. Perhaps you want the value of Pi to be 
written to a file. You can call Pi from the math module, create a new 
file and pass the output of Pi into the new file:
import math 
print(“Value of Pi is: “,math.pi) 
print(“\nWriting to a file now…”)
To finish, you can use string formatting to call the 
variable and write it to the file, then commit the 
changes and close the file:
t.write(“Value of Pi is: {}”.format(pi)) 
t.close()
You can see from the results that you’re able to pass any variable 
to a file. 
Now let’s create a variable called pi and assign it the 
value of Pi:
pi=math.pi
You also need to create a new file in which to write Pi to:
t=open(“/home/pi/Documents/pi.txt”,”w”)
Remember to change your file location to your own particular 
system setup.
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
67
www.bdmpublications.com
Writing to Files
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 68 ---
When coding, you’ll naturally come across some issues that are out of your control. Let’s 
assume you ask a user to divide two numbers and they try to divide by zero. This will 
create an error and break your code.
Rather than stop the flow of your code, Python includes exception objects which handle unexpected errors in the code. You 
can combat errors by creating conditions where exceptions may occur.  
EXCEPTIONAL OBJECTS
You can create an exception error by simply trying 
to divide a number by zero. This will report back 
with the ZeroDivisionError: Division by zero message, as seen in the 
screenshot. The ZeroDivisionError part is the exception class, of 
which there are many.
You can use the functions raise exception to create 
our own error handling code within Python. Let’s 
assume your code has you warping around the cosmos, too much 
however results in a warp core breach. To stop the game from 
exiting due to the warp core going supernova, you can create a 
custom exception:
raise Exception(“warp core breach”)
Most exceptions 
are raised 
automatically when Python 
comes across something that’s 
inherently wrong with the code. 
However, you can create your 
own exceptions that are designed 
to contain the potential error and 
react to it, as opposed to letting 
the code fail. 
To trap any errors in the code you can encase the 
potential error within a try: block. This block consists 
of try, except, else, where the code is held within try:, then if there’s 
an exception do something, else do something else.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Exceptions 
68
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 69 ---
For example, use the divide by zero error. You can 
create an exception where the code can handle the 
error without Python quitting due to the problem:
try: 
    a=int(input(“Enter the first number: “)) 
    b=int(input(“Enter the second number: “)) 
    print(a/b) 
except ZeroDivisionError: 
    print(“You have tried to divide by zero!”) 
else: 
    print(“You didn’t divide by zero. Well done!”)
Obviously this won’t work due to the file textfile.
txt being opened as read only (the “r” part). So in 
this case rather than Python telling you that you’re doing something 
wrong, you’ve created an exception using the IOError class 
informing the user that the permissions are incorrect.
You can use exceptions to handle a variety of useful 
tasks. Using an example from our previous tutorials, 
let’s assume you want to open a file and write to it: 
try: 
   txt = open(“/home/pi/Documents/textfile.txt”, “r”) 
   txt.write(“This is a test. Normal service will 
shortly resume!”) 
except IOError: 
   print (“Error: unable to write the file. Check 
permissions”) 
else: 
   print (“Content written to file successfully. Have 
a nice day.”) 
   txt.close() 
Naturally, you can quickly fix the issue by changing 
the “r” read only instance with a “w” for write. This, 
as you already know, will create the file and write the content then 
commit the changes to the file. The end result will report a different 
set of circumstances, in this case, a successful execution of the code.
As before an error will occur as you’ve used the 
“r” read-only permission. If you change it to a “w”, 
then the code will execute without the error being displayed in the 
IDLE Shell. Needless to say, it can be a tricky getting the exception 
code right the first time. Practise though, and you will get the 
hang of it. 
You can also use a finally: block, which works in a 
similar fashion but you can’t use else with it. To use 
our example from Step 6:
try: 
   txt = open(“/home/pi/Documents/textfile.txt”, “r”) 
   try: 
      txt.write(“This is a test. Normal service will 
shortly resume!”) 
   finally: 
      print (“Content written to file successfully. 
Have a nice day.”) 
      txt.close() 
except IOError: 
   print (“Error: unable to write the file. Check 
permissions”)
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
69
www.bdmpublications.com
Exceptions
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 70 ---
Whilst dealing with text on the screen, either as a game or in a program, is great, there 
will come a time when a bit of graphical representation wouldn’t go amiss. Python 3 has 
numerous ways in which to include graphics and they’re surprisingly powerful too. 
You can draw simple graphics, lines, squares and so on, or you can use one of the many Python modules available, to bring out 
some spectacular effects.
GOING GRAPHICAL
One of the best graphical modules to begin learning 
Python graphics is Turtle. The Turtle module is, as 
the name suggests, based on the turtle robots used in many schools, 
that can be programmed to draw something on a large piece 
of paper on the floor. The Turtle module can be imported with: 
import turtle.
The command turtle.circle(50) is what draws the 
circle on the screen, with 50 being the size. You 
can play around with the sizes if you like, going up to 100, 150 and 
beyond; you can draw an arc by entering: turtle.circle(50, 
180), where the size is 50, but you’re telling Python to only draw 
180° of the circle.
Let’s begin by drawing a simple circle. Start a New 
File, then enter the following code:
import turtle
turtle.circle(50) 
turtle.getscreen()._root.mainloop()
As usual press F5 to save the code and execute it. A new window will 
now open up and the ‘Turtle’ will draw a circle.
The last part of the circle code tells Python to 
keep the window where the drawing is taking 
place to remain open, so the user can click to close it. Now, let’s 
make a square:
import turtle
print(“Drawing a square…”)
for t in range(4): 
       turtle.forward(100) 
       turtle.left(90) 
turtle.getscreen()._root.mainloop()
You can see that we’ve inserted a loop to draw the sides of 
the square.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Python Graphics 
70
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 71 ---
You can add a new line to the square code to add 
some colour:
turtle.color(“Red”) 
Then you can even change the character to an actual turtle 
by entering:
turtle.shape(“turtle”)
You can also use the command turtle.begin_fill(), and 
turtle.end_fill() to fill in the square with the chosen colours; 
red outline, yellow fill in this case.
Another way in which you can display graphics is 
by using the Pygame module. There are numerous 
ways in which pygame can help you output graphics to the screen  
but for now let’s look at displaying a predefined image. Start by 
opening a browser and finding an image, then save it to the folder 
where you save your Python code. 
You can see that the Turtle module can draw out 
some pretty good shapes and become a little 
more complex as you begin to master the way it works. Enter 
this example:
from turtle import * 
color(‘red’, ‘yellow’) 
begin_fill() 
while True: 
    forward(200) 
    left(170) 
    if abs(pos()) < 1: 
        break 
end_fill() 
done()
It’s a different method,  
but very effective.
Now let’s get the code by importing the pygame module:
import pygame 
pygame.init()
img = pygame.image.load(“RPi.png”)
white = (255, 255, 255) 
w = 900 
h = 450 
screen = pygame.display. 
set_mode((w, h)) 
screen.fill((white))
screen.fill((white)) 
screen.blit(img,(0,0)) 
pygame.display.flip()
while True: 
    for event in pygame.event.get(): 
        if event.type == pygame.QUIT: 
            pygame.quit()
Press F5 to save and execute the code and your 
image will be displayed in a new window. Have a 
play around with the colours, sizes and so on and take time to look 
up the many functions within the pygame module too. 
In the previous step you imported pygame, initiated 
the pygame engine and asked it to import our saved 
Raspberry Pi logo image, saved as RPi.png. Next you defined the 
background colour of the window to display the image and the 
window size as per the actual image dimensions. Finally you have a 
loop to close the window.
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
71
www.bdmpublications.com
Python Graphics
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 72 ---
Based on what you’ve looked at over this section, let’s combine it all and come up with 
a piece of code that can easily be applied into a real-world situation; or at the very least, 
something which you can incorporate into your programs. 
For this example, let’s look to a piece of code that creates user logins and then allows them to log into the system and write 
the time they logged in at. You can even include an option to quit the program by pressing ‘q’.
LOGGING IN
Begin by importing the time module, creating 
a new dictionary to handle the usernames and 
passwords and creating a variable to evaluate the current status of 
the program:
import time 
users = {} 
status = “”
The global status statement separates a local 
variable from one that can be called throughout 
the code, this way you can use the q=quit element without it being 
changed inside the function. We’ve also referenced some newly 
defined functions: oldUser and newUser which we’ll get to next.
Next you need to define some functions. You can 
begin by creating the main menu, where all users 
will return to after selecting the available options:
def mainMenu(): 
    global status 
    status = input(“Do you have a login account? 
y/n? Or press q to quit.”)   
    if status == “y”: 
        oldUser() 
    elif status == “n”: 
        newUser() 
    elif status == “q”: 
        quit()  
The newUser function is next:
def newUser(): 
    createLogin = input(“Create a login name: “)
    if createLogin in users:  
        print (“\nLogin name already exists!\n”) 
    else: 
        createPassw = input(“Create password: “) 
        users[createLogin] = createPassw  
        print(“\nUser created!\n”) 
        logins=open(“/home/pi/Documents/logins.
txt”, “a”) 
        logins.write(“\n” + createLogin + “ “ + 
createPassw) 
        logins.close()
This creates a new user and password, and writes the entries into a 
file called logins.txt.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Combining What 
You Know So Far
72
Working with Data
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 73 ---
You will need to specify your own location for the 
logins.txt file, since we’re using a Raspberry Pi. 
Essentially, this adds the username and password inputs from the 
user to the existing users{} dictionary, so the key and value structure 
remains: each user is the key, the password is the value.
There’s a fair bit happening here. There are login 
and passw variables, which are then matched to the 
users dictionary. If there’s a match, then you have a successful login 
and the time and date of the login is outputted. If they don’t match, 
then you print an error and the process starts again.
Now to create the oldUser function:
def oldUser(): 
    login = input(“Enter login name: “) 
    passw = input(“Enter password: “)
    # check if user exists and login 
matches password 
    if login in users and users[login] == passw:  
        print (“\nLogin successful!\n”) 
        print (“User:”, login, “accessed the system 
on:”, time.asctime()) 
    else: 
        print (“\nUser doesn’t exist or wrong 
password!\n”) 
Finally, you need to continually check that the ‘q’ key 
hasn’t been pressed to exit the program. We can do 
this with:
while status != “q”: 
    status = displayMenu()  
You can now create users, then login with their 
names and passwords, with the logins.txt file 
being created to store the login data and successful logins being 
time-stamped. Now it’s up to you to further improve the code. 
Perhaps you can import the list of created users from a previous 
session and display a graphic upon a successful login? 
Although a seemingly minor two lines, the while 
loop is what keeps the program running. At the end 
of every function it’s checked against the current value of status. If 
that global value isn’t ‘q’ then the program continues. If it’s equal to 
‘q’ then the program can quit. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
73
www.bdmpublications.com
Combining What You Know So Far
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 74 ---
Using 
Modules
74
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 75 ---
Modules are where you can take 
Python programming to new heights. 
You can create your own modules 
or you can use some of the already 
available modules, to help convert 
a mundane piece of code into 
something spectacular.
Want to see how to make better 
use of these modules to add a little 
something extra to your code? Then 
read on and learn how they can be 
used to fashion fantastic programs.
76	
Calendar Module 
78	
OS Module 
80	
Random Module 
82	
Tkinter Module 
84	
Pygame Module 
88	
Create Your Own Modules 
75
www.bdmpublications.com
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 76 ---
Beyond the time module, the calendar module can produce some interesting results 
when executed within your code. It does far more than simply display the date in the 
time module-like format, you can actually call up a wall calendar type display. 
The calendar module is built into Python 3. However, if for some reason it’s not installed you can add it using pip install 
calendar as a Windows administrator or sudo pip install calendar for Linux and macOS.  
WORKING WITH DATES
Launch Python 3 and enter: import calendar to 
call up the module and its inherent functions. Once 
it’s loaded into memory, start by entering:
sep=calendar.TextCalendar(calendar.SUNDAY) 
sep.prmonth(2017, 9)
There are numerous functions within the calendar 
module that may be of interest to you when 
forming your own code. For example, you can display the number of 
leap years between two specific years:
leaps=calendar.leapdays(1900, 2018) 
print(leaps)
The result is 29, starting from 1904 onward.
You can see that the days of September 2017 are 
displayed in a wall calendar fashion. Naturally you 
can change the 2017, 9 part of the second line to any year and 
month you want, a birthday for example (1973, 6). The first line 
configures TextCalendar to start its weeks on a Sunday; you can opt 
for Monday if you prefer.
You could even fashion that particular example into 
a piece of working, user interactive Python code:
import calendar 
print(“>>>>>>>>>>Leap Year 
Calculator<<<<<<<<<<\n”)y1=int(input(“Enter the 
first year: “)) 
y2=int(input(“Enter the second year: “)) 
leaps=calendar.leapdays(y1, y2) 
print(“Number of leap years between”, y1, “and”, 
y2, “is:”, leaps) 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Calendar Module 
76
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 77 ---
You can also create a program that will display all 
the days, weeks and months within a given year:
import calendar 
year=int(input(“Enter the year to display: “) 
print(calendar.prcal(year))
We’re sure you’ll agree that’s quite a handy bit of code to 
have to hand. 
You can see that code produced some zeros at the 
beginning, this is due to the starting day of the 
week, Sunday in this case, and overlapping days from the previous 
month. So the counting of the days will start on Friday 1st June 
2018 and will total 30 as the output correctly displays.  
Interestingly we can also list the number of days in a 
month by using a simple for loop:
import calendar 
cal=calendar.TextCalendar(calendar.SUNDAY) 
for i in cal.itermonthdays(2018, 6): 
       print(i)
You’re also able to print the individual months or 
days of the week:
import calendar 
for name in calendar.month_name: 
       print(name)
import calendar 
for name in calendar.day_name: 
       print(name)
Of course, you can modify that to display a given 
year as a web page calendar:
import calendar
year=int(input(“Enter the year to display as a 
webpage: “)) 
cal=open(“/home/pi/Documents/cal.html”, “w”) 
cal.write(calendar.HTMLCalendar(calendar.MONDAY).
formatyear(year)) 
cal.close()
This code asks the user for a year, then creates the necessary 
webpage. Remember to change your file destination.
The calendar module also allows us to write the 
functions in HTML, so that you can display it on a 
website. Let’s start by creating a new file:
import calendar 
cal=open(“/home/pi/Documents/cal.html”, “w”) 
c=calendar.HTMLCalendar(calendar.SUNDAY) 
cal.write(c.formatmonth(2018, 1)) 
cal.close()
This code will create an HTML file called cal, open it with a browser 
and it displays the calendar for January 2018. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
77
www.bdmpublications.com
Calendar Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 78 ---
The OS module allows you to interact directly with the built-in commands found in your 
operating system. Commands vary depending on the OS you’re running, as some will 
work with Windows whereas others will work with Linux and macOS.
One of the primary features of the OS module is the ability to list, move, create, delete and otherwise interact with files 
stored on the system, making it the perfect module for backup code. 
INTO THE SYSTEM
You can start the OS module with some simple 
functions to see how it interacts with the operating 
system environment that Python is running on. If you’re using Linux 
or the Raspberry Pi, try this:
import os 
home=os.getcwd() 
print(home)
The Windows output is different as that’s the 
current working directory of Python, as determined 
by the system; as you might suspect, the os.getcwd() function is 
asking Python to retrieve the Current Working Directory. Linux users 
will see something along the same lines as the Raspberry Pi, as will 
macOS users.
The returned result from printing the variable home 
is the current user’s home folder on the system. 
In our example that’s /home/pi; it will be different depending on 
the user name you login as and the operating system you use. 
For example, Windows 10 will output: C:\Program Files (x86)\
Python36-32. 
Yet another interesting element to the OS module, 
is its ability to launch programs that are installed 
in the host system. For instance, if you wanted to launch the 
Chromium browser from within a Python program you can use 
the command:
import os 
browser=os.system(“/usr/bin/chromium-browser”) 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
OS Module 
78
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 79 ---
The os.system() function is what allows interaction 
with external programs; you can even call up 
previous Python programs using this method. You will obviously 
need to know the full path and program file name for it to work 
successfully. However, you can use the following:
import os 
os.system(‘start chrome “https://www.youtube.com/
feed/music”’)
Note in the previous step’s example the use of 
single and double-quotes. The single quotes encase 
the entire command and launching Chromium, whereas the double 
quotes open the specified page. You can even use variables to call 
multiple tabs in the same browser:
import os 
a=(‘chromium-browser “http://
bdmpublications.com/”’) 
b=(‘chromium-browser “http://www.google.co.uk”’) 
os.system(a + b) 
For Step 5’s example we used Windows, to show 
that the OS module works roughly the same across 
all platforms. In that case, we opened YouTube’s music feed page, so 
it is therefore possible to open specific pages:
import os 
os.system(‘chromium-browser “http://
bdmpublications.com/”’)
The ability to manipulate directories, or folders if 
you prefer, is one of the OS module’s best features. 
For example, to create a new directory you can use:
import os 
os.mkdir(“NEW”)
This creates a new directory within the Current Working Directory, 
named according to the object in the mkdir function.
Another module that goes together with OS is 
shutil. You can use the shutil module together 
with OS and time to create a time-stamped backup directory, and 
copy files into it:
import os, shutil, time
root_src_dir = r’/home/pi/Documents’ 
root_dst_dir = ‘/home/pi/backup/’ + time.asctime() 
for src_dir, dirs, files in os.walk(root_src_dir): 
    dst_dir = src_dir.replace(root_src_dir, root_
dst_dir, 1) 
    if not os.path.exists(dst_dir): 
        os.makedirs(dst_dir) 
    for file_ in files: 
        src_file = os.path.join(src_dir, file_) 
        dst_file = os.path.join(dst_dir, file_) 
        if os.path.exists(dst_file): 
            os.remove(dst_file) 
        shutil.copy(src_file, dst_dir)
print(“>>>>>>>>>>Backup complete<<<<<<<<<<”)
You can also rename any directories you’ve created 
by entering:
import os 
os.rename(“NEW”, “OLD”)
To delete them:
import os 
os.rmdir(“OLD”) 
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
79
www.bdmpublications.com
OS Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 80 ---
The random module is one you will likely come across many times in your Python 
programming lifetime; as the name suggests, it’s designed to create random numbers 
or letters. However, it’s not exactly random but it will suffice for most needs.
You can extend the previous example somewhat by 
having random.choice() select from a list of mixed 
variables. For instance:
import random 
lst=[“David”, 44, “BDM Publications”, 3245.23, 
“Pi”, True, 3.14, “Python”] 
rnd=random.choice(lst) 
print(rnd)
  STEP 5
There are numerous functions within the random module, which when applied can create some interesting and very useful 
Python programs.  
RANDOM NUMBERS
Just as with other modules you need to import 
random before you can use any of the functions 
we’re going to look at in this tutorial. Let’s begin by simply printing a 
random number from 1 to 5:
import random 
print(randomint(0,5))
For a bigger set of numbers, including floating 
point values, you can extend the range by using the 
multiplication sign:
import random 
print(random.random() *100)
Will display a floating point number between 0 and 100, to the tune 
of around fifteen decimal points. 
In our example 
the number four 
was returned. However, enter 
the print function a few more 
times and it will display different 
integer values from the set of 
numbers given, zero to five. The 
overall effect, although pseudo-
random, is adequate for the 
average programmer to utilise in 
their code.
However, the random module isn’t used exclusively 
for numbers. You can use it to select an entry from a 
list from random, and the list can contain anything:
import random 
random.choice([“Conan”, “Valeria”, “Belit”]) 
This will display one of the names of our adventurers at random, 
which is a great addition to a text adventure game.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Random Module 
80
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 81 ---
Using shuffle, you can create an entirely random list 
of numbers. For example, within a given range:
import random 
lst=[[i] for I in range(20)] 
random.shuffle(lst) 
print(lst) 
Keep shuffling the list and you can have a different selection of 
items from 0 to 20 every time.
Interestingly, you can also use a function within the 
random module to shuffle the items in the list, thus 
adding a little more randomness into the equation:
random.shuffle(lst) 
print(lst) 
This way, you can keep shuffling the list before displaying a random 
item from it.
You can also select a random number from a given 
range in steps, using the start, stop, step loop:
import random 
for i in range(10): 
      print(random.randrange(0, 200, 7))
Results will vary but you get the general idea as to how it works.
Here’s an interesting piece of code. Using a text 
file containing 466 thousand words, you can pluck 
a user generated number of words from the file (text file found at: 
www.github.com/dwyl/english-words): 
import random
print(“>>>>>>>>>>Random Word Finder<<<<<<<<<<”) 
print(“\nUsing a 466K English word text file I can 
pick any words at random.\n”)
wds=int(input(“\nHow many words shall I 
choose? “))
with open(“/home/pi/Downloads/words.txt”, 
“rt”) as f: 
    words = f.readlines() 
words = [w.rstrip() for w in words]
print(“--------------------”)
for w in random.sample(words, wds): 
    print(w)
print(“--------------------”)
Let’s use an example piece of code which flips a 
virtual coin ten thousand times and counts how 
many times it will land on heads or tails:
import random 
output={“Heads”:0, “Tails”:0} 
coin=list(output.keys())
for i in range(10000): 
    output[random.choice(coin)]+=1
print(“Heads:”, output[“Heads”]) 
print(“Tails:”, output[“Tails”]) 
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
81
www.bdmpublications.com
Random Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 82 ---
Whilst running your code from the command line, or even in the Shell, is perfectly fine, 
Python is capable of so much more. The Tkinter module enables the programmer to set 
up a Graphical User Interface to interact with the user, and it’s surprisingly powerful too. 
Tkinter is easy to use but there’s a lot more you can do with it. Let’s start by seeing how it works and getting some code into it. 
Before long you will discover just how powerful this module really is.
GETTING GUI
Tkinter is usually built into Python 3. However, if it’s 
available when you enter: import tkinter, then 
you need to pip install tkinter from the command prompt. 
We can start to import modules differently than before, to save on 
typing and by importing all their contents:
import tkinter as tk 
from tkinter import *
The ideal approach is to add mainloop() into the 
code to control the Tkinter event loop, but we’ll 
get to that soon. You’ve just created a Tkinter widget and there are 
several more we can play around with:
btn=Button() 
btn.pack() 
btn[“text”]=”Hello everyone!”
The first line focuses on the newly created window. Click back into 
the Shell and continue the other lines.
It’s not recommended to import everything from a 
module using the asterisk but it won’t do any harm 
normally. Let’s begin by creating a basic GUI window, enter:
wind=Tk()
This creates a small, basic window. There’s not much else to do at 
this point but click the X in the corner to close the window. 
You can combine the above into a New File:
import tkinter as tk 
from tkinter import * 
btn=Button() 
btn.pack() 
btn[“text”]=”Hello everyone!”
Then add some button interactions:
def click(): 
    print(“You just clicked me!”) 
btn[“command”]=click
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Tkinter Module 
82
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 83 ---
Save and execute the code from Step 5 and a 
window appears with ‘Hello everyone!’ inside. If you 
click the Hello everyone! button, the Shell will output the text ‘You 
just clicked me!’. It’s simple but shows you what can be achieved 
with a few lines of code. 
The previous code is 
quite weighty, mostly 
due to the content 
variable holding a part 
of BDM’s About page 
from the company 
website. You can 
obviously change the 
content, the root.title 
and the image to suit 
your needs. 
You can also display both text and images within 
a Tkinter window. However, only GIF, PGM or PPM 
formats are supported. So find an image and convert it before using 
the code. Here’s an example using the BDM Publishing logo:
from tkinter import *
root = Tk() 
logo = PhotoImage(file=”/home/pi/Downloads/BDM_
logo.gif”) 
w1 = Label(root, root.title(“BDM Publications”), 
image=logo).pack(side=”right”) 
content = “””  From its humble beginnings in 2004, 
the BDM brand quickly grew from a single publication 
produced by a team of just two to one of the biggest 
names in global bookazine publishing, for two simple 
reasons. Our passion and commitment to deliver the 
very best product each and every volume. While 
the company has grown with a portfolio of over 250 
publications delivered by our international staff, 
the foundation that it has been built upon remains 
the same, which is why we believe BDM isn’t just 
the first choice it’s the only choice for the smart 
consumer.  “”” 
w2 = Label(root,  
           justify=LEFT, 
           padx = 10,  
           text=content).pack(side=”left”) 
root.mainloop()
You can create radio buttons too. Try:
from tkinter import *
root = Tk()
v = IntVar()
Label(root, root.title(“Options”), text=”””Choose 
a preferred language:”””, 
      justify = LEFT, padx = 20).pack() 
Radiobutton(root,  
            text=”Python”, 
            padx = 20,  
            variable=v,  
            value=1).pack(anchor=W) 
Radiobutton(root,  
            text=”C++”, 
            padx = 20,  
            variable=v,  
            value=2).pack(anchor=W)
mainloop()
The code from Step 9 introduced some new 
geometry elements into Tkinter. Note the 
sticky=N, E and W arguments. These describe the locations of the 
check boxes and buttons (North, East, South and West). The row 
argument places them on separate rows. Have a play around and 
see what you get.
You can also create check boxes, with buttons and 
output to the Shell:
from tkinter import * 
root = Tk()
def var_states(): 
   print(“Warrior: %d,\nMage: %d” % (var1.get(), 
var2.get()))
Label(root, root.title(“Adventure Game”), 
text=”>>>>>>>>>>Your adventure role<<<<<<<<<<”).
grid(row=0, sticky=N) 
var1 = IntVar() 
Checkbutton(root, text=”Warrior”, variable=var1).
grid(row=1, sticky=W) 
var2 = IntVar() 
Checkbutton(root, text=”Mage”, variable=var2).
grid(row=2, sticky=W) 
Button(root, text=’Quit’, command=root.destroy).
grid(row=3, sticky=W, pady=4) 
Button(root, text=’Show’, command=var_states).
grid(row=3, sticky=E, pady=4)
mainloop()
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
83
www.bdmpublications.com
Tkinter Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 84 ---
We’ve had a brief look at the Pygame module already but there’s a lot more to it that 
needs exploring. Pygame was developed to help Python programmers create either 
graphical or text-based games.
Pygame isn’t an inherent module to Python but those using the Raspberry Pi will already have it installed. Everyone else will 
need to use: pip install pygame from the command prompt.  
PYGAMING
Naturally you need to load up the Pygame modules 
into memory before you’re able to utilise them. 
Once that’s done Pygame requires the user to initialise it prior to 
any of the functions being used:
import pygame 
pygame.init()
  STEP 1
Sadly you can’t close the newly created Pygame 
window without closing the Python IDLE Shell, 
which isn’t very practical. For this reason, you need to work in the 
editor (New > File) and create a True/False while loop:
import pygame 
from pygame.locals import * 
pygame.init()
gamewindow=pygame.display.set_mode((800,600)) 
pygame.display.set_caption(“Adventure Game”)
running=True
while running: 
    for event in pygame.event.get(): 
        if event.type==QUIT: 
            running=False 
            pygame.quit()
  STEP 3
Let’s create a simple game ready window, and give 
it a title:
gamewindow=pygame.display.set_mode((800,600)) 
pygame.display.set_caption(“Adventure Game”)
You can see that after the first line is entered, you need to click back 
into the IDLE Shell to continue entering code; also, you can change 
the title of the window to anything you like.
  STEP 2
Pygame Module 
84
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 85 ---
Let’s quickly go through the code changes. We’ve 
defined two colours, black and white together 
with their respective RGB colour values. Next we’ve loaded the 
downloaded image called sprite1.png and allocated it to the 
variable img; and also defined a sprite function and the Blit function 
will allow us to eventually move the image.  
  STEP 6
You’re going to shift the code around a bit now, 
running the main Pygame code within a while loop; 
it makes it neater and easier to follow. We’ve downloaded a graphic 
to use and we need to set some parameters for pygame:
import pygame 
pygame.init()
running=True
while running:
    gamewindow=pygame.display.set_mode((800,600)) 
    pygame.display.set_caption(“Adventure Game”) 
    black=(0,0,0) 
    white=(255,255,255) 
    img=pygame.image.load(“/home/pi/Downloads/
sprite1.png”)
    def sprite(x,y): 
        gamewindow.blit(img, (x,y))
    x=(800*0.45) 
    y=(600*0.8)
    gamewindow.fill(white) 
    sprite(x,y) 
    pygame.display.update()
    for event in pygame.event.get(): 
        if event.type==pygame.QUIT: 
            running=False
  STEP 5
If the Pygame window still won’t 
close don’t worry, it’s just a 
discrepancy between the IDLE (which is written 
with Tkinter) and the Pygame module. If you 
run your code via the command line, it closes 
perfectly well. 
  STEP 4
85
www.bdmpublications.com
Pygame Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 86 ---
Now we can change the code around again, this 
time containing a movement option within the while 
loop, and adding the variables needed to move the sprite around 
the screen:
import pygame 
from pygame.locals import * 
pygame.init()
running=True
gamewindow=pygame.display.set_mode((800,600)) 
pygame.display.set_caption(“Adventure Game”) 
black=(0,0,0) 
white=(255,255,255) 
img=pygame.image.load(“/home/pi/Downloads/
sprite1.png”)
def sprite(x,y): 
    gamewindow.blit(img, (x,y))
x=(800*0.45) 
y=(600*0.8)
xchange=0 
imgspeed=0
while running: 
    for event in pygame.event.get(): 
        if event.type==QUIT: 
            running=False
    if event.type == pygame.KEYDOWN: 
        if event.key==pygame.K_LEFT: 
            xchange=-5 
        elif event.key==pygame.K_RIGHT: 
            xchange=5 
    if event.type==pygame.KEYUP: 
        if event.key==pygame.K_LEFT or event 
key==pygame.K_RIGHT: 
            xchange=0
    x += xchange
    gamewindow.fill(white) 
    sprite(x,y) 
    pygame.display.update()
pygame.quit()
  STEP 7
Copy the code down and using the left and right arrow keys on the keyboard you can move your sprite across the bottom of 
the screen. Now, it looks like you have the makings of a classic arcade 2D scroller in the works.
  STEP 8
86
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 87 ---
You can now implement a few additions and utilise 
some previous tutorial code. The new elements are 
the subprocess module, of which one function allows us to launch a 
second Python script from within another; and we’re going to create a 
New File called pygametxt.py:
import pygame 
import time 
import subprocess 
pygame.init() 
screen = pygame.display.set_mode((800, 250)) 
clock = pygame.time.Clock()
font = pygame.font.Font(None, 25)
pygame.time.set_timer(pygame.USEREVENT, 200)
def text_generator(text): 
    tmp = ‘’ 
    for letter in text: 
        tmp += letter 
        if letter != ‘ ‘: 
            yield tmp
class DynamicText(object): 
    def __init__(self, font, text, pos, 
autoreset=False): 
        self.done = False 
        self.font = font 
        self.text = text 
        self._gen = text_generator(self.text) 
        self.pos = pos 
        self.autoreset = autoreset 
        self.update()
    def reset(self): 
        self._gen = text_generator(self.text) 
        self.done = False 
        self.update()
    def update(self): 
        if not self.done: 
            try: self.rendered = self.font.
render(next(self._gen), True, (0, 128, 0)) 
            except StopIteration:  
                self.done = True 
                time.sleep(10) 
                subprocess.Popen(“python3 /home/pi/Documents/
Python\ Code/pygame1.py 1”, shell=True)
    def draw(self, screen): 
        screen.blit(self.rendered, self.pos)
text=(“A long time ago, a barbarian strode from the 
frozen north. Sword in hand...”)
message = DynamicText(font, text, (65, 120), 
autoreset=True)
while True: 
    for event in pygame.event.get(): 
        if event.type == pygame.QUIT: break 
        if event.type == pygame.USEREVENT: 
message.update() 
    else: 
        screen.fill(pygame.color.Color(‘black’)) 
        message.draw(screen) 
  STEP 9
When you run this code it will display a long, 
narrow Pygame window with the intro text 
scrolling to the right. After a pause of ten seconds, it then launches 
the main game Python script where you can move the warrior sprite 
around. Overall the effect is quite good but there’s always room  
for improvement. 
  STEP 10
        pygame.display.flip() 
        clock.tick(60) 
        continue 
    break
pygame.quit()
87
www.bdmpublications.com
Pygame Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 88 ---
Large programs can be much easier to manage if you break them up into smaller parts 
and import the parts you need as modules. Learning to build your own modules also 
makes it easier to understand how they work. 
If you now try and execute the basic_math.py code 
again, the error ‘NameError: name ‘timestwo’ is 
not defined’ will be displayed. This is due to the code no longer 
having access to the function definitions. 
Return to 
the newly 
created window containing 
the function definitions, and 
click File > Save As. Name this 
minimath.py and save it in the 
same location as the original 
basic_math.py program. Now 
close the minimath.py window, 
so the basic_math.py window is 
left open. 
Now you’re going to take the function definitions 
out of the program and into a separate file. 
Highlight the function definitions and choose Edit > Cut. Choose File 
> New File and use Edit > Paste in the new window. You now have 
two separate files, one with the function definitions, the other with 
the function calls.
Under the above code, enter functions to 
call the code:
print (timestwo(2)) 
print (timesthree(3)) 
print (square(4)) 
print (power(5,3))
Save the program as basic_math.py and execute it to get the results. 
Let’s start by creating a set of basic Mathematics 
functions. Multiply a number by two, three and 
square or raise a number to an exponent (power). Create a New File 
in the IDLE and enter:
def timestwo(x): 
       return x * 2
def timesthree(x): 
       return x * 3
def square(x): 
       return x * x
def power(x,y): 
       return x ** y
  STEP 4
  STEP 5
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
Modules are Python files, containing code, that you save using a .py extension. These are then imported into Python using the 
now familiar import command.  
BUILDING MODULES
Create Your Own Modules 
88
Using Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 89 ---
Note that for the last available options, the Power 
of choice, we’ve added a second variable, num2. 
This passes a second number through the function definition called 
power. Save and execute the program to see it in action. 
Finally, you can now create a range of if statements 
to determine what to do with the number and 
utilise the newly created function definitions:
if choice == ‘1’: 
    print(timestwo(num1))
elif choice == ‘2’: 
    print(timesthree(num1))
elif choice == ‘3’: 
    print(square(num1))
elif choice == ‘4’: 
    num2 = int(input(“Enter second number: “)) 
    print(power(num1, num2)) 
else: 
   print(“Invalid input”)
Now we can add the user input to get the number 
the code will work on:
num1 = int(input(“\nEnter number: “))
This will save the user-entered number as the variable num1.
You can now use the code further to make the 
program a little more advanced, utilising the newly 
created module to its full. Include some user interaction. Start by 
creating a basic menu the user can choose from:
print(“Select operation.\n”) 
print(“1.Times by two”) 
print(“2.Times by Three”) 
print(“3.Square”) 
print(“4.Power of”)
choice = input(“\nEnter choice (1/2/3/4):”)
Back to the basic_math.py window: at the top of the 
code enter:
from minimath import * 
This will import the function definitions as a module. Press F5 to 
save and execute the program to see it in action.
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
  STEP 8
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
89
www.bdmpublications.com
Create Your Own Modules
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 90 ---
Code 
Repository
BDM’s Code Portal
21 Python programs  |  3,000+ lines of code
Whilst you can learn a lot by manually typing in the code within this section, we 
appreciate that it could be quite a long and drawn-out process. To that end, we have 
created the BDM Code Portal.
By navigating to http:// bdmpublications.com/code-portal you will be able to download 
each of the programs listed in the book’s Code Repository in their original Python 
format. You can then edit them, take snippets of code from each to plug into your own 
programs or improve and expand on them as you see fit.
The file structure replicates the contents of this book, so you can easily skip to whichever 
code snippet you want to download and play around with it. Have fun, and keep coding.
90
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 91 ---
We’ve included a vast Python code 
repository for you to use freely 
in your own programs. There’s 
everything you can think of in here 
to help you create a superb piece 
of programming.
There’s code for making backups 
of your files and folders, number 
guessing games, random number 
generators, Google search code, 
game code, animation code, graphics 
code, text adventure code and even 
code that plays music stored on 
your computer. 
92	
Python File Manager
94	
Number Guessing Game
96	
Polygon Circles
97	
Random Number Generator
98	
Random Password Generator
99	
Keyboard Drawing Script
100	
Pygame Text Examples
101	
Google Search Script
102	
Text to Binary Convertor
104	
Basic GUI File Browser
106	
Mouse Controlled Turtle
107	
Python Alarm Clock
108	
Vertically Scrolling Text
110	
Python Digital Clock
112	
Pygame Music Player
113	
Python Image Slideshow Script
114	
Playing music with the Winsound Module
116	
Text Adventure Script
118	
Python Scrolling Ticker Script
119	
Simple Python Calculator
120	
Hangman Game Script
91
www.bdmpublications.com
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 92 ---
This file manager program displays 
a list of options that allow you to 
read a file, write to a file, append to 
a file, delete a file, list the contents 
of a directory and much more. It’s 
remarkably easy to edit and insert 
into your own code, or add to. 
Copy the code below into a New > File and save it as FileMan.py. 
Once executed it will display the program title, along with the 
current time and date and the available options.
FILEMAN.PY
import shutil        
import os        
import time
import subprocess
def Read():
 
path=input(“Enter the file path to read:”)
 
file=open(path,”r”)
 
print(file.read()) 
 
input(‘Press Enter...’)  
 
file.close() 
def Write():    
 
path=input(“Enter the path of file to write or create:”)
 
if os.path.isfile(path):
   
print(‘Rebuilding the existing file’) 
	
else:
 
 
print(‘Creating the new file’) 
 
text=input(“Enter text:”)
 
file=open(path,”w”)
 
file.write(text)
def Add():      
 
path=input(“Enter the file path:”)
 
text=input(“Enter the text to add:”)
 
file=open(path,”a”) 
  file.write(‘\n’+text)
def Delete():          
  path=input(“Enter the path of file for deletion:”)
  if os.path.exists(path):     
 
 
print(‘File Found’)     
   
os.remove(path)  
   
print(‘File has been deleted’)
	
else:
   
print(‘File Does not exist’)
def Dirlist():    
 
path=input(“Enter the Directory path to display:”)
 
sortlist=sorted(os.listdir(path))       
	
i=0
 
while(i<len(sortlist)):
 
 
print(sortlist[i]+’\n’)
 
 
i+=1
def Check():  
 
fp=int(input(‘Check existence of \n1.File \n2.   
 
Directory\n’))
 
 
if fp==1:
 
 
 
path=input(“Enter the file path:”)
 
 
 
os.path.isfile(path)
Python File Manager
92
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 93 ---
Imports
There are three modules to import here: Shutil, OS and 
Time. The first two deal with the operating system and file 
management and manipulation; and the Time module simply 
displays the current time and date.
Note how we’ve included a try and except block to check if 
the user is running the code on a Linux system or Windows. 
Windows uses CLS to clear the screen, while Linux uses clear. 
The try block should work well enough but it’s a point of 
possible improvement depending on your own system.
 
 
if os.path.isfile(path)==True:
 
 
 
print(‘File Found’)
	
	
else:
 
 
 
print(‘File not found’)
 
if fp==2:
 
 
path=input(“Enter the directory path:”)
 
 
os.path.isdir(path)
 
 
if os.path.isdir(path)==False:
 
 
 
print(‘Directory Found’)
	
	
else:
 
 
 
print(‘Directory Not Found’)
def Move():        
 
path1=input(‘Enter the source path of file to move:’)
 
mr=int(input(‘1.Rename \n2.Move \n’))
 
if mr==1:
	
	
path2=input(‘Enter the destination path and file name:’)
 
 
shutil.move(path1,path2)
 
 
print(‘File renamed’)
 
if mr==2:
 
 
path2=input(‘Enter the path to move:’)
 
 
shutil.move(path1,path2)
 
 
print(‘File moved’)
def Copy():       
 
path1=input(‘Enter the path of the file to copy or rename:’)
 
path2=input(‘Enter the path to copy to:’)
 
shutil.copy(path1,path2)
 
print(‘File copied’)
def Makedir():            
 
path=input(“Enter the directory name with path to make 
 
\neg. C:\\Hello\\Newdir \nWhere Newdir is new 
 
directory:”)
 
os.makedirs(path) 
 
print(‘Directory Created’)
def Removedir():             
 
path=input(‘Enter the path of Directory:’)
 
treedir=int(input(‘1.Deleted Directory \n2.Delete 
 
Directory Tree \n3.Exit \n’))
 
if treedir==1:
 
 
os.rmdir(path)
 
if treedir==2:
 
 
shutil.rmtree(path)
 
 
print(‘Directory Deleted’)
 
if treedir==3:
	
	
exit()
def Openfile():
 
path=input(‘Enter the path of program:’)
	
try:
 
 
os.startfile(path)
	
except:
 
 
print(‘File not found’)
run=1
while(run==1):
	
try:
 
 
os.system(‘clear’)
	
except OSError:
 
 
os.system(‘cls’)        
 
print(‘\n>>>>>>>>>>Python 3 File Manager<<<<<<<<<<\n’)
 
print(‘The current time and date is:’,time.asctime())
 
print(‘\nChoose the option number: \n’)
 
dec=int(input(‘’’1.Read a file
2.Write to a file
3.Append text to a file
4.Delete a file
5.List files in a directory
6.Check file existence
7.Move a file
8.Copy a file
9.Create a directory
10.Delete a directory
11.Open a program
12.Exit
‘’’))
 
if dec==1:
	
	
Read()
 
if dec==2:
	
	
Write()
 
if dec==3:
	
	
Add()
	
if dec==4:
	
	
Delete()
	
if dec==5:
	
	
Dirlist()
	
if dec==6:
	
	
Check()
	
if dec==7:
 
 
Move()
	
if dec==8:
	
	
Copy()
	
if dec==9:
	
	
Makedir()
 
if dec==10:
 
 
Removedir()
 
if dec==11:
 
 
Openfile()
 
if dec==12:
	
	
exit()
 
run=int(input(“1.Return to menu\n2.Exit \n”))
 
if run==2:
	
	
exit()
93
www.bdmpublications.com
Python File Manager
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 94 ---
This is a simple little piece of 
code but it makes good use of the 
Random module, print and input, 
and a while loop. The number of 
guesses can be increased from 5 
and the random number range can 
easily be altered too.
Copy the code and see if you can beat the computer within five 
guesses. It’s an interesting bit of code that can be quite handy 
when your implementing a combination of the Random module 
alongside a while loop.
NUMBERGUESS.PY
import random
guessesUsed = 0
Name=input(‘Hello! What is your name? ‘)
number = random.randint(1, 30)
print(‘Greetings, ‘ + Name + ‘, I\’m thinking of a 
number between 1 and 30.’)
while guessesUsed < 5:
	 guess=int(input(‘Guess the number within 5 guesses...’))
 guessesUsed = guessesUsed + 1
 if guess < number:
  
print(‘Too low, try again.’)
 if guess > number:
  
print(‘Too high, try again.’)
	 if guess == number:
	 	
break
if guess == number:
	 guessesUsed = str(guessesUsed)
 print(‘Well done, ‘ + Name + ‘! You guessed 
 correctly in ‘ + guessesUsed + ‘ guesses.’)
if guess != number:
	 number = str(number)
 print(‘Sorry, out of guesses. The number I was 
 thinking of is ‘ + number)
Number Guessing Game
94
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 95 ---
Code Improvements
Since this is such as simple script to apply to a situation, there’s 
plenty of room to mess around with it and make it more 
interesting. Perhaps you can include an option to take score, the 
best out of three rounds. Maybe an elaborate way to congratulate 
the player for getting a ‘hole in one’ correct guess on their first try.
Moreover, the number guessing game code does offer some room 
for implementing into your code in a different manner. What we 
mean by this is, the code can be used to retrieve a random number 
between a range, which in turn can give you the start of a character 
creation defined function within an adventure game.
Imagine the start of a text adventure written in Python, where 
the player names their character. The next step is to roll the 
virtual random dice to decide what that character’s combat 
rating, strength, endurance and luck values are. These can then be 
carried forward into the game under a set of variables that can be 
reduced or increased depending on the circumstances the player’s 
character ends up in.
For example, as per the screenshot provided, you could use 
something along the lines of:
Endurance=0
CR=0
Luck=0
Endurance = random.randint(1, 15)
CR = random.randint(1, 20)
Luck = random.randint(1, 10)
Print(“Your character’s stats are as follows:\n”)
Print(“Endurance:”, Endurance)
Print(“Combat Rating:”, CR)
Print(“Luck:”, Luck)
The player can then decide to either stick with their roll or try again 
for the hope of better values being picked. There’s ample ways in 
which to implement this code into a basic adventure game.
95
www.bdmpublications.com
Number Guessing Game
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 96 ---
Here’s a fun, and mathematical, 
look at making a circle from 
straight lines. Using the Math 
module, in particular sin, cos and 
Pi, this code will draw a series 
of straight lines using the Turtle 
module. The end result is quite 
remarkable and has plenty of scope 
for further exploration.
There’s lots of Mathematics used here along with some 
intricate coordinate manipulation with the Turtle module. 
Enter the code and execute it to see how it turns out.
POLYGONCIRCLES.PY
Polygon Circles
from turtle import*
from math import sin, cos, pi
r=200
inc=2*pi/100
t=0;n=1.5
for i in range(100):
 x1=r*sin(t);  y1=r*cos(t)
 x2=r*sin(t+n);y2=r*cos(t+n)
 penup();  goto(x1,y1)
 pendown();goto(x2,y2)
 t+=inc
Graphical Enhancements
There are several ways in which you can improve this code to make 
it more interesting. You can insert colours, perhaps a different 
colour for every line. You can display a message inside the circle 
and have the Turtle draw around it. Let your imagination run wild 
on this one.
Turtle’s graphics can take a while to map out and draw, depending 
on how big and how intricate an image it is you’re designing. Whilst 
the effect can be quite stunning, it is limited by the amount of 
time it takes to display an image. Therefore it’s worth seeing if the 
function turtle.speed() will quicken things up.
Turtle.speed() comes in various values:
slowest
slow
normal
fast
fastest
You can experiment with the various speeds by adding the function 
in the for loop, just before the penup line. 
For example:
for i in range(100):
 
x1=r*sin(t);  y1=r*cos(t)
 
x2=r*sin(t+n);y2=r*cos(t+n)
 
speed(‘fastest’)
 
penup();  goto(x1,y1)
 
pendown();goto(x2,y2)
 
t+=inc
This will run through the code at the ‘fastest’ speed possible for 
the Turtle. It certainly makes a difference and is worth considering 
if you’re drawing Turtle images for games or presentations.
96
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 97 ---
User input and the ability to 
manipulate that input are important 
elements with any programming 
language. It’s what separates a good 
program from a great program, one 
that allows the user to interact and 
see the results of that interaction.
It might be simple but this little piece of code will ask the user 
for two sets of numbers, a start and a finish. The code will then 
pluck out a random number between the two sets and display it.
RNDNUMGEN.PY
from random import *
print(“\n>>>>>>>>>>Random Number Generator<<<<<<<<<<\n”)
nmb1=int(input(“Enter the start number: “))
nmb2=int(input(“Enter the last number: “))
 
x = randint(nmb1, nmb2)
print(“\nThe random number between”,nmb1,”and”,nmb2,”is:\n”)
print(x)
Random Number Generator
More Input
While an easy code to follow, it could be more interesting if you 
prompt the user for more input. Perhaps you can provide them 
with addition, subtraction, multiplication elements with their 
numbers. If you’re feeling clever, see if you can pass the code 
through a Tkinter window or even the Ticker window that’s 
available on Page 124. 
Furthermore, the core of the code can be used in a text adventure 
game, where the character fights something and their health, 
along with the enemy’s, is reduced by a random number. This  
can be mixed with the previous code from Page 90’s Number 
Guessing Game, where we defined the stats for the adventure 
game’s character.
You can also introduce the Turtle module into the code and 
perhaps set some defined rules for drawing a shape, object or 
something based on a user inputted random value from a range 
of numbers. It takes a little working out but the effect is certainly 
really interesting.
For example, the code could be edited to this:
from random import *
import turtle
print(“\n>>>>>>>>>>Random Turtle Image<<<<<<<<<<\n”)
nmb1=int(input(“Enter the start number: “))
nmb2=int(input(“Enter the second number: “))
nmb3=int(input(“Enter the third number: “))
nmb4=int(input(“Enter the fourth number: “))
 
turtle.forward(nmb1)
turtle.left(90)
turtle.forward(nmb2)
turtle.left(90)
turtle.forward(nmb3)
turtle.left(90)
turtle.forward(nmb4)
turtle.left(90)
Whilst it’s a little rough around the edges, you can easily make it 
more suitable.
97
www.bdmpublications.com
Polygon Circles/Random Number Generator
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 98 ---
We’re always being told that our 
passwords aren’t secure enough; 
well here’s a solution for you to 
implement into your own future 
programs. The random password 
generator code below will create 
a 12-letter string of words (both 
cases) and numbers each time 
it’s executed.
Copy the code and run it; each time you’ll get a random 
string of characters that can easily be used as a secure 
password which will be incredibly difficult for a password 
cracker to hack.
RNDPASSWORD.PY
Random Password Generator
import string
import random
def randompassword():
 chars=string.ascii _ uppercase + string.ascii _
 lowercase + string.digits
	 size= 8
 return ‘’.join(random.choice(chars) for x in 
 range(size,20))
print(randompassword())
Secure Passwords
There’s plenty you can do to modify this code and improve it 
further. For one, you can increase the number of characters the 
generated password displays and perhaps you can include special 
characters too, such as signs and symbols. Then, you can output 
the chosen password to a file, then securely compress it using the 
previous random number generator as a file password and send it 
to a user for their new password.
An interesting aspect to this code is the ability to introduce a loop 
and print any number of random passwords. Let’s assume you have 
a list of 50 users for a company and you’re in charge of generating 
a random password for them each month. 
Adding a loop to print a password fifty times is extremely easy, 
for example:
import string
import random
def randompassword():
 
chars=string.ascii _ uppercase + string.ascii _
 
lowercase + string.digits
	
size= 4
 
return ‘’.join(random.choice(chars) for x in 
 
range(size,20))
    
n=0
while n<50:
 
print(randompassword())
 
n=n+1
This will output fifty random passwords based on the previous 
random selection of characters.
98
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 99 ---
The Turtle module is an excellent 
resource for the Python programmer. 
However, what makes it more 
interesting, is its ability to enable 
the user to control the turtle on 
the screen. This piece of code does 
exactly that, allowing the user to 
unleash their inner artist.
There are two modules in this script: Turtle and Tkinter. The 
Turtle module is the main display, where the user controls the 
drawing, whereas Tkinter simply displays the user controls.
KEYBDRAW.PY
“””
All movements and turns are by increments of 5.
Right arrow key = move forward
Left arrow key = move backward
r = turn right
l = turn left
u = pen up
d = pen down
h = go home
c = clear
“””
from tkinter import *
from turtle import *
root = Tk()
T = Text(root, root title(“Controls”),height=8, width=60)
T.pack()
T.insert(END, “Right arrow key = move forward\
nLeft arrow key = move backward\nr = turn right\nl 
= turn left\nu = pen up\nd = pen down\nh = go home\
nc = clear”)
def main():
 width(2)
	 speed(0)
 pencolor(“blue”)
 onkey(up, “u”)
 onkey(down, “d”)
 onkey(clear, “c”)
 onkey(home, “h”)
 onkey(lambda: forward(5), “Right”)
 onkey(lambda: back(5), “Left”)
 onkey(lambda: left(5), “l”)
 onkey(lambda: right(5), “r”)
Keyboard Drawing Script
Artwork
Just as with all code, there’s always room for improvement 
somewhere. Here you could change the colours or ask the user 
which colour they want to start with and then include a key in 
the controls to change the pen colour whilst drawing. There’s 
also room to increase or decrease the speed of the pen, again 
that could be a user-defined speed. You can also expand the 
controls thoroughly to include a lot more detail and options.
	 listen()
 return “Done!”
if _ _ name _ _ == “ _ _ main _ _ ”:
	 msg = main()
	 print(msg)
	 mainloop()
99
www.bdmpublications.com
Random Password Generator/Keyboard Drawing Script
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 100 ---
There’s a lot you can do using the 
Pygame module that’s not related 
to displaying graphics. The module 
contains many functions which can 
manipulate text, such as flipping it, 
displaying it sideways, upside down 
and even rotating it with animations.
Here we’ve introduced several examples of displaying text 
within the Pygame module. Each is easily recognised within 
the code, so you can pull it out and use it in your code.
TXTROT.PY
import pygame
pygame.init()
 
BLACK = (0, 0, 0)
WHITE = (255, 255, 255)
BLUE = (0, 0, 255)
GREEN = (0, 255, 0)
RED = (255, 0, 0)
 
PI = 3.141592653
 
size = (400, 500)
screen = pygame.display.set _ mode(size)
 
pygame.display.set _ caption(“Text Examples”)
 
done = False
clock = pygame.time.Clock()
 
text _ rotate _ degrees = 0
 
while not done:
 
 for event in pygame.event.get():  
  
if event.type == pygame.QUIT:  
  
 
done = True  
 
 screen.fill(WHITE)
 
 pygame.draw.line(screen, BLACK, [100,50], 
 [200, 50])
 pygame.draw.line(screen, BLACK, [100,50], 
 [100, 150])
 
	 font = pygame.font.SysFont(‘Calibri’, 25, 
 True, False)
 
 text = font.render(“Sideways text”, True, BLACK)
Pygame Text Examples
The Joy Of Text
Here, you can see that we’ve started by defining the colours 
but left the text black throughout the rest of the code; then, 
also left the display window with a white background. The code 
itself is fairly easy to follow and you can improve it by using 
different colours, changing the font for each text example, and 
its size too.
Try using some of the text examples individually in your code as 
an introduction to your program perhaps. Either way you use 
it, it will help make it stand out a little more than the standard 
Python code you will likely come across during your time as  
a programmer. 
 text = pygame.transform.rotate(text, 90)
 screen.blit(text, [0, 0])
 
 text = font.render(“Upside down text”, True, BLACK)
 text = pygame.transform.rotate(text, 180)
 screen.blit(text, [30, 0])
 
 text = font.render(“Flipped text”, True, BLACK)
 text = pygame.transform.flip(text, False, True)
 screen.blit(text, [30, 20])
 
 text = font.render(“Rotating text”, True, BLACK)
 text = pygame.transform.rotate(text, text _
 rotate _ degrees)
 text _ rotate _ degrees += 1
 screen.blit(text, [100, 50])
 
 pygame.display.flip()
 clock.tick(60)
pygame.quit()
100
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 101 ---
Using the OS and Urllib modules, this 
small snippet of code will display a 
window for the user’s input, then pass 
the input to a Google search in their 
browser. It’s really quite a handy script 
and one that’s easily introduced into 
your own code.
You will need to pip install the urllib module, unless it’s already 
installed. It also uses Zenity, which is a Linux-based (GNOME) 
tool for creating dialog boxes. 
GOOGLESEARCH.PY
Google Search Script
import os
import urllib.parse
google = os.popen(‘zenity --entry --text=”Enter your 
Google search: “ --title=”Google Search”’).read()
google = urllib.parse.quote(google)
os.system(‘chromium-browser http://www.google.com/
search?q=%s’ % (google))
Searching For More
Here we’ve used the Zenity command to create the dialog box, 
which as we mentioned is only available to Linux machines (such as 
Ubuntu, Raspberry Pi, Linux Mint and so on). If you want to execute 
it in Windows you have a couple of possibilities: you can find a 
Windows version of Zenity and pass the user’s query through it; or 
you can create a Tkinter dialog box to pass the information.
You can see that this particular code uses the Chromium browser 
which comes preinstalled on the Raspberry Pi, and some versions 
of Linux. To use your favourite browser in Windows, for example, 
you will need to change the command in the last line of the code 
to read Firefox, or whatever you use, together with the Start 
command. So essentially, one of the following:
os.system(‘start firefox http://www.google.com/
search?q=%s’ % (google))
os.system(‘start chrome http://www.google.com/
search?q=%s’ % (google))
os.system(‘start iexplore http://www.google.com/
search?q=%s’ % (google))
The last two for Chrome and Internet Explorer respectively.
There is a Zenity for Windows project available on GitHub at www.
github.com/kvaps/zenity-windows. It’s a good working version 
but you do need to install it to a folder on your system where you 
won’t require administrator access to be able to run the Zenity 
program. When you have Zenity installed, you can modify the 
Windows version of this code in Python to read:
import os
import urllib.parse
google = os.popen(‘start c:\Temp\Zenity\\bin\
zenity --entry --text=”Enter your Google search: “ 
--title=”Google Search”’).read()
google = urllib.parse.quote(google)
os.system(‘start firefox http://www.google.com/
search?q=%s’ % (google))
101
www.bdmpublications.com
Pygame Text Examples/Google Search Script
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 102 ---
Whilst it may not seem too exciting, 
this text to binary convertor is 
actually quite good fun. It also 
only uses two lines of code, so it’s 
extremely easy to insert into your 
own script.
Naturally we’re using the format function to convert the  
user’s entered text string into its binary equivalent. If you  
want to check its accuracy, you can plug the binary into an  
online convertor.
TXT2BIN.PY
text=input(“Enter text to convert to Binary: “)
print(‘ ‘.join(format(ord(x), ‘b’) for x in text))
Text to Binary Convertor
102
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 103 ---
1000010 1101001 1101110 1100001 
1110010 1111001
The text to binary convertor does offer some room for 
improvement and enhancement. There are many uses: it could be 
utilised in a password or secret word script, as part of an adventure 
game or just a novel way to display someone’s name. 
With regards to improvements, you could display the binary 
conversion in a Pygame window, using the animated text options 
from page 100. You could also ask the user if they wanted to have 
another go, or even ask if they wanted the binary output to be 
saved to a file.
With regards to rendering the outputted binary conversion to a 
Pygame window, complete with rotating text, you can use:
import pygame
pygame.init()
BLACK = (0, 0, 0)
WHITE = (255, 255, 255)
BLUE = (0, 0, 255)
GREEN = (0, 255, 0)
RED = (255, 0, 0)
print(“>>>>>>>>>>Text to Binary Convertor<<<<<<<<<<\n”)
conversion=input(“Enter text to convert to Binary: “)
size = (600, 400)
screen = pygame.display.set _ mode(size)
 
pygame.display.set _ caption(“Binary Conversion”)
done = False
clock = pygame.time.Clock()
 
text _ rotate _ degrees = 0
Binary=(‘ ‘.join(format(ord(x), ‘b’) for x in conversion))
while not done:
 
 
for event in pygame.event.get():  
 
 
if event.type == pygame.QUIT:  
 
 
 
done = True  
 
screen.fill(WHITE)
 
font = pygame.font.SysFont(‘Calibri’, 25, True, False)
    
 
text = font.render(Binary, True, BLACK)
 
text = pygame.transform.rotate(text, text _
 
rotate _ degrees)
 
text _ rotate _ degrees += 1
 
screen.blit(text, [100, 50])
 
pygame.display.flip()
 
clock.tick(60)
pygame.quit()
print(‘ ‘.join(format(ord(x), ‘b’) for x in conversion))
103
www.bdmpublications.com
Text to Binary Convertor
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 104 ---
Here’s a helpful and interesting 
piece of code. It’s an extremely 
basic file browser that’s presented 
in a graphical user interface using 
the Tkinter module. There’s a lot 
you can learn from this code and 
implement into your own programs.
Tkinter is the main module in use here but we’re also using 
idlelib, so you may need to pip install any extras if the 
dependencies fail when you execute the code.
FILEBROWSER.PY
from tkinter import Tk
from idlelib.TreeWidget import ScrolledCanvas, 
FileTreeItem, TreeNode
import os
root = Tk()
root.title(“File Browser”)
sc = ScrolledCanvas(root, bg=”white”, 
highlightthickness=0, takefocus=1)
sc.frame.pack(expand=1, fill=”both”, side=”left”)
item = FileTreeItem(os.getcwd())
node = TreeNode(sc.canvas, None, item)
node.expand()
root.mainloop()
Basic GUI File Browser
104
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 105 ---
Advanced Filing
When executed, the code will display the current directory’s 
contents. If you want to see the contents of another directory, you 
can run the code from a command line within the chosen directory; 
just remember to call the code from where it’s located on your 
system, as per the second screenshot. You can also double-click any 
of the file names shown in the directory tree and rename them.
This is an interesting piece of code and one that you can insert into 
your own programs. You can extend the code to include a user 
specified directory to browse, perhaps your own unique file icons 
too. If you’re using Linux, create an alias to execute the code and 
then you can run it from wherever you are in the system.
Windows users may have some trouble with the above code, an 
alternative can be achieved by using the following:
from tkinter import *
from tkinter import ttk
from tkinter.filedialog import askopenfilename
root = Tk(  )
def OpenFile():
 
name = askopenfilename(initialdir=”C:/”,
 
 
 
 
filetypes =((“Text File”, “*.txt”),(“All 
 
 
 
 
Files”,”*.*”)),
   
 
 
title = “Choose a file.”
                           )
	
print (name)
	
try:
 
 
with open(name,’r’) as UseFile:
 
 
 
print(UseFile.read())
	
except:
 
 
print(“No files opened”)
Title = root.title( “File Opener”) 
label = ttk.Label(root, text =”File 
Open”,foreground=”red”,font=(“Helvetica”, 16))
label.pack()
menu = Menu(root)
root.config(menu=menu)
file = Menu(menu)
file.add _ command(label = ‘Open’, command = OpenFile)
file.add _ command(label = ‘Exit’, command = 
lambda:exit())
menu.add _ cascade(label = ‘File’, menu = file)
root.mainloop()
It’s not quite the same but this code allows you to open files in your 
system via the familiar Windows Explorer. It’s worth experimenting 
with to see what you can do with it.
105
www.bdmpublications.com
Basic GUI File Browser
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 106 ---
We’ve already seen the Turtle 
module being controlled by the 
user via the keyboard but now we 
thought we’d see how the user 
can use their mouse as a drawing 
tool within Python. We have two 
possible code examples here, pick 
which works best for you.
The first piece of code presents the standard Turtle window. 
Press Space and then click anywhere on the screen for the 
Turtle to draw to the mouse pointer. The second allows you to 
click the Turtle and drag it around the screen; but be warned, 
it can crash Python.
MOUSETURTLE.PY
1st Code Example:
from turtle import Screen, Turtle
screen = Screen()
yertle = Turtle()
def k101():
 screen.onscreenclick(click _ handler)
def click _ handler(x, y):
 screen.onscreenclick(None)  # disable event inside 
 event handler
 yertle.setheading(yertle.towards(x, y))
 yertle.goto(x, y)
 screen.onscreenclick(click _ handler)  # reenable 
 event on event handler exit
screen.onkey(k101, “ “)  # space turns on mouse drawing
screen.listen()
screen.mainloop()
2nd Code Example:
from turtle import *
shape(“circle”)
pencolor(“blue”)
width(2)
ondrag(goto)
listen()
Mouse Controlled Turtle
Ninja TurtleMouse
This code utilises some interesting skills. Obviously it will stretch 
your Python Turtle skills to come up with any improvements, 
which is great, but it could make for a nice piece of code to 
insert into something a young child will use. Therefore it can be 
a fantastic project for a younger person to get their teeth into; 
or perhaps even as part of a game where the main character is 
tasked to draw a skull and crossbones or something similar.
106
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 107 ---
Ever taken a quick break from 
working at the computer, then 
suddenly realised many minutes later 
that you’ve spent all that time on 
Facebook? Introducing the Python 
alarm clock code, where you can drop 
into the command prompt and tell 
the code how many minutes until the 
alarm goes off.
This code is designed for use in the command prompt, be that 
Windows, Linux or macOS. There are some instructions on how 
to use it in the main print section but essentially it’s: python3 
AlarmClock.py 10 (to go off in ten minutes).
ALARMCLOCK.PY
import sys
import string
from time import sleep
sa = sys.argv
lsa = len(sys.argv)
if lsa != 2:
 print (“Usage: [ python3 ] AlarmClock.py duration _
 in _ minutes”)
 print (“Example: [ python3 ] AlarmClock.py 10”)
 print (“Use a value of 0 minutes for testing the 
 alarm immediately.”)
	
print (“Beeps a few times after the duration is over.”)
 print (“Press Ctrl-C to terminate the alarm 
 clock early.”)
 sys.exit(1)
try:
 minutes = int(sa[1])
except ValueError:
	
print (“Invalid numeric value (%s) for minutes” % sa[1])
 print (“Should be an integer >= 0”)
 sys.exit(1)
if minutes < 0:
 print (“Invalid value for minutes, should be >= 0”)
 sys.exit(1)
seconds = minutes * 60
if minutes == 1:
 unit _ word = “ minute”
else:
 unit _ word = “ minutes”
Python Alarm Clock
try:
 if minutes > 0:
	 	
print (“Sleeping for “ + str(minutes) + unit _ word)
	 	
sleep(seconds)
 print (“Wake up”)
	 for i in range(5):
  
print (chr(7)),
  
sleep(1)
except KeyboardInterrupt:
 print (“Interrupted by user”)
 sys.exit(1)
Wakey Wakey
There’s some good use of try and except blocks here, alongside 
some other useful loops that can help you get a firmer 
understanding of how they work in Python. The code itself 
can be used in a variety of ways: in a game where something 
happens after a set amount of time or simply as a handy 
desktop alarm clock for your tea break.
Linux users, try making the alarm clock code into an alias, so 
you can run a simple command to execute it. Then, why not 
integrate a user input at the beginning to ask the user for the 
length of time they want until the alarm goes off, rather than 
having to include it in the command line.
Windows users, if Python 3 is the only version installed on your 
system then you will need to execute the code without adding 
the 3 to the end of the Python command. For example:
python AlarmClock.py 10
Again, you could easily incorporate this into a Windows batch 
file and even set a schedule to activate the alarm at certain 
times of the day.
107
www.bdmpublications.com
Mouse Controlled Turtle/Python Alarm Clock
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 108 ---
What’s not to like about vertically 
scrolling text? Its uses are many: 
the beginning of a game or 
introduction to something epic, 
like the beginning of every Star 
Wars movie; a list of credits at the 
end of something, such as a Python 
presentation. The list goes on.
We’ve used the poem Cimmeria by Robert E. Howard for the 
code’s scrolling text, along with a dramatic black background 
and red text. We think you’ll agree, it’s quite epic. 
EPICSCROLL.PY
import pygame as pg
from pygame.locals import *
  
pg.init()
  
text _ list = ‘’’
I remember
The dark woods, masking slopes of sombre hills;
The grey clouds’ leaden everlasting arch;
The dusky streams that flowed without a sound,
And the lone winds that whispered down the passes.
Vista on vista marching, hills on hills,
Slope beyond slope, each dark with sullen trees,
Our gaunt land lay. So when a man climbed up
A rugged peak and gazed, his shaded eye
Saw but the endless vista – hill on hill,
Slope beyond slope, each hooded like its brothers.
It was a gloomy land that seemed to hold
All winds and clouds and dreams that shun the sun,
With bare boughs rattling in the lonesome winds,
And the dark woodlands brooding over all,
Not even lightened by the rare dim sun
Which made squat shadows out of men; they called it
Cimmeria, land of Darkness and deep Night.
It was so long ago and far away
I have forgot the very name men called me.
The axe and flint-tipped spear are like a dream,
And hunts and wars are shadows. I recall
Only the stillness of that sombre land;
The clouds that piled forever on the hills,
The dimness of the everlasting woods.
Cimmeria, land of Darkness and the Night.
Oh, soul of mine, born out of shadowed hills,
To clouds and winds and ghosts that shun the sun,
How many deaths shall serve to break at last
This heritage which wraps me in the grey
Apparel of ghosts? I search my heart and find
Cimmeria, land of Darkness and the Night!
‘’’.split(‘\n’)
  
Vertically Scrolling Text
108
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 109 ---
A Long Time Ago…
The obvious main point of enhancement is the actual text 
itself. Replace it with a list of credits, or an equally epic opening 
storyline to your Python game, and it will certainly hit the 
mark with whoever plays it. Don’t forget to change the screen 
resolution if needed; we’re currently running it at 800 x 600.
class Credits:
 def _ _ init _ _ (self, screen _ rect, lst):
  
self.srect = screen _ rect
  
self.lst = lst
  
self.size = 16
  
self.color = (255,0,0)
  
self.buff _ centery = self.srect.height/2 + 5
  
self.buff _ lines = 50
  
self.timer = 0.0
  
self.delay = 0
  
self.make _ surfaces()
  
  
 def make _ text(self,message):
  
font = pg.font.SysFont(‘Arial’, self.size)
  
text = font.render(message,True,self.color)
  
rect = text.get _ rect(center = (self.srect.
	 	
centerx, self.srect.centery + self.buff _ centery) )
  
return text,rect
  
 def make _ surfaces(self):
  
self.text = []
  
for i, line in enumerate(self.lst):
  
 
l = self.make _ text(line)
  
 
l[1].y += i*self.buff _ lines
  
 
self.text.append(l)
  
	 def update(self):
  
if pg.time.get _ ticks()-self.timer > self.delay:
  
 
self.timer = pg.time.get _ ticks()
  
 
for text, rect in self.text:
 
 
 
 
rect.y -= 1
  
 def render(self, surf):
  
for text, rect in self.text:
  
 
surf.blit(text, rect)
  
screen = pg.display.set _ mode((800,600))
screen _ rect = screen.get _ rect()
clock = pg.time.Clock()
running=True
cred = Credits(screen _ rect, text _ list)
  
while running:
 for event in pg.event.get(): 
  
if event.type == QUIT:
	 	
	
running = False
 screen.fill((0,0,0))
 cred.update()
 cred.render(screen)
 pg.display.update()
 clock.tick(60)
109
www.bdmpublications.com
Vertically Scrolling Text
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 110 ---
There is already a clock displayed 
on the desktop of most operating 
systems but it’s always handy to 
have one on top of the currently 
open window. To that end, why 
not create a Python digital clock 
that can be a companion desktop 
widget for you. 
This is a surprisingly handy little script and one that we’ve 
used in the past instead of relying on a watch or even the 
clock in the system tray of the operating system.
DIGCLOCK.PY
import time
import tkinter as tk
def tick(time1=’’):
 # get the current time from the PC
 time2 = time.strftime(‘%H:%M:%S’)
 if time2 != time1:
  
time1 = time2
  
clock.config(text=time2)
   
 clock.after(200, tick)
    
root = tk.Tk()
clock = tk.Label(root, font=(‘arial’, 20, ‘bold’), 
bg=’green’)
clock.pack(fill=’both’, expand=1)
tick()
root.mainloop()
Python Digital Clock
110
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 111 ---
Tick Tock
This is a piece of code we’ve used many times in the past to keep 
track of time while working on multiple monitors and with just a 
quick glance to where we’ve placed it on the screen. 
The Tkinter box can be moved around without affecting the time, 
maximised or closed by the user at will. We haven’t given the 
Tkinter clock window a title, so you can add to that easily enough 
by snipping the code from other examples in this book.
Another area of improvement is to include this code when 
Windows or Linux starts, so it automatically pops up on the 
desktop. See also, if you’re able to improve its functionality by 
including different time zones: Rome, Paris, London, New York, 
Moscow and so on.
Another example, expanding on the original code, could be a 
digital stopwatch. For that you could use the following:
import tkinter
import time
class StopWatch(tkinter.Frame):
	
@classmethod
	
def main(cls):
 
 
tkinter.NoDefaultRoot()
 
 
root = tkinter.Tk()
 
 
root.title(‘Stop Watch’)
 
 
root.resizable(True, False)
 
 
root.grid _ columnconfigure(0, weight=1)
 
 
padding = dict(padx=5, pady=5)
 
 
widget = StopWatch(root, **padding)
 
 
widget.grid(sticky=tkinter.NSEW, **padding)
 
 
root.mainloop()
 
def _ _ init _ _ (self, master=None, cnf={}, **kw):
   
padding = dict(padx=kw.pop(‘padx’, 5), pady=kw.
 
 
pop(‘pady’, 5))
 
 
super(). _ _ init _ _ (master, cnf, **kw)
 
 
self.grid _ columnconfigure(1, weight=1)
   
self.grid _ rowconfigure(1, weight=1)
    
self. _ _ total = 0
 
 
self. _ _ label = tkinter.Label(self, 
 
 
text=’Total Time:’)
	
	
self. _ _ time = tkinter.StringVar(self, ‘0.000000’)
 
 
self. _ _ display = tkinter.Label(self, 
 
 
textvariable=self. _ _ time)
 
 
self. _ _ button = tkinter.Button(self, 
 
 
text=’Start’, command=self. _ _ click)
 
 
self. _ _ label.grid(row=0, column=0, 
 
 
sticky=tkinter.E, **padding)
 
 
self. _ _ display.grid(row=0, column=1, 
 
 
sticky=tkinter.EW, **padding)
 
 
self. _ _ button.grid(row=1, column=0,  
 
 
columnspan=2,sticky=tkinter.NSEW, **padding)
 
def _ _ click(self):
 
 
if self. _ _ button[‘text’] == ‘Start’:
 
 
self. _ _ button[‘text’] = ‘Stop’
 
 
self. _ _ start = time.clock()
	
	
self. _ _ counter = self.after _ idle(self. _ _ update)
	
else:
 
 
self. _ _ button[‘text’] = ‘Start’
 
 
self.after _ cancel(self. _ _ counter)
 
def _ _ update(self):
 
 
now = time.clock()
 
 
diff = now - self. _ _ start
 
 
self. _ _ start = now
 
 
self. _ _ total += diff
 
 
self. _ _ time.set(‘{:.6f}’.format(self. _ _ total))
	
	
self. _ _ counter = self.after _ idle(self. _ _ update)
if _ _ name _ _ == ‘ _ _ main _ _ ’:
 
StopWatch.main()
111
www.bdmpublications.com
Python Digital Clock
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 112 ---
The Pygame module does 
far more than simply display 
graphics or GUI windows, it can 
also playback MP3 files amongst 
other media file types. For this 
we can use the pygame.mixer.
music() function, along with its 
accompanying pygame.mixer.music.
play() function.
The code is remarkably simple and can be played with very 
few lines to clutter your already fully-loaded program. Insert 
this code and make sure you’ve either provided the full path 
to the MP3 or it’s in the same directory as the Python file.
MUSICPLAY.PY
import pygame, sys
from pygame.locals import *
pygame.init()
screen = pygame.display.set _ mode((640, 480))
screen.fill((0, 0, 0, 255))
pygame.display.set _ caption(“Pygame Music Player”)
pygame.mixer.music.load(“Superman.mp3”)
print(“Superman The Movie Theme!”)
print(“Loading Music...”)
pygame.mixer.music.play(-1, 0.0)
while True:
 for event in pygame.event.get():
  
if event.type == pygame.QUIT:
  
 
pygame.quit()
  
 
sys.exit()
 pygame.display.update()
Pygame Music Player
Just Play the Music and Dance…
There are a few extras you can apply here to make the music code 
a little more interesting. For one, how about creating a list of the 
available MP3s on the system, then offering the user the choice of 
music to play via a simple list and input functions.
You can also insert a small section of the code into a previous 
example  used: the Vertically Scrolling Text code from Page 108. 
For example, you can have the bulk of the code displaying the text 
itself but then you can insert a couple of lines to play some music 
alongside the text. Making it an excellent opening to a Python 
game or presentation:
pygame.mixer.music.load(“Barbarian Adventure Music.
mp3”) # Change the MP3 filename/location
pygame.mixer.music.play(-1, 0.0) # This will play the 
music while the text scrolls
Insert these lines just before the While loop in the Vertically 
Scrolling Text example and as long as the MP3 is present, or you 
pointed it to the correct location in the system, the code will scroll 
and play the music in the background.
112
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 113 ---
Displaying images in Python can be 
tricky at times. Some modules work 
better than others at displaying certain 
image media types. Pygame is often 
the main choice but Tkinter can do a 
better job whilst using less memory too. 
However, there are restrictions
Using Tkinter to display a series of images as a slideshow 
is a great method of building Python programming skills. 
However, the images need to be saved as a .GIF.
SLIDESHOW.PY
from itertools import cycle
import tkinter as tk
class App(tk.Tk):
 ‘’’Tk window/label adjusts to size of image’’’
 def _ _ init _ _ (self, image _ files, x, y, delay):
        
  
tk.Tk. _ _ init _ _ (self)
        
  
self.geometry(‘+{}+{}’.format(x, y))
  
self.delay = delay
        
  
self.pictures = cycle((tk.
  
PhotoImage(file=image), image)
  
 
 
for image in image _ files)
  
self.picture _ display = tk.Label(self)
  
self.picture _ display.pack()
 def show _ slides(self):
  
‘’’cycle through the images and display them’’’
        
  
img _ object, img _ name = next(self.pictures)
  
self.picture _ display.config(image=img _ object)
        
  
self.title(img _ name)
  
self.after(self.delay, self.show _ slides)
	 def run(self):
  
self.mainloop()
# set milliseconds time between slides
delay = 3500
# get a series of gif images you have in the 
working folder
# or use full path, or set directory to where the 
images are
image _ files = [
‘/home/pi/Pictures/1.gif’,
‘/home/pi/Pictures/2.gif’,
‘/home/pi/Pictures/3.gif’,
‘/home/pi/Pictures/4.gif’,
Python Image  
Slideshow Script
‘/home/pi/Pictures/5.gif’
]
x = 100
y = 50
app = App(image _ files, x, y, delay)
app.show _ slides()
app.run()
Slideshowing Off
If you store your images in the same directory as the Python 
script is executed from, then you won’t need to apply the full 
path destination as defined in the image_files list; you simply 
name them 1.gif, 2.gif and so on (or retain their full file names).
The time taken to display each image is handled by the delay 
variable, as noted in the code. To lessen or increase the time 
between slides, simply reduce or increase the number relating 
to the variable.
Improvements to the code can include waiting for the user 
to press a key or a mouse button to display the next image. 
Perhaps you could insert the code into the text adventure you 
made from Page 120, displaying a scene in the game when the 
character comes across something worthwhile, such as a pile of 
gold, a giant spider or some long lost city deep in the desert.
113
www.bdmpublications.com
Pygame Music Player/Python Image Slideshow Script
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 114 ---
Of course, instead of playing an 
existing MP3, you can always make 
your own music. The code below 
will play out Pachelbel’s Canon in 
D, no less.
The code utilises both the Time and Winsound modules, 
defining the tone and pitch and inserting small pauses of .5 
of a second.
MUSIC.PY
import winsound
import time
t = 250
p = .50
llC = 65
lC  = 131
lDb = 139
lD  = 147
lEb = 156
lE  = 165
lF  = 175
lGb = 185
lG  = 196
lAb = 208
lA  = 220
lBb = 233
lB  = 247
C  = 262
Db = 277
D  = 294
Eb = 311
E  = 330
F  = 349
Gb = 370
G  = 392
Ab = 415
A  = 440
Bb = 466
B  = 494
hC  = 523
hDb = 554
hD  = 587
hEb = 622
hE  = 659
hF  = 698
hGb = 740
hG  = 784
hAb = 831
hA  = 880
hBb = 932
hB  = 988
time.sleep(0.001)
for i in range (5):
    
Playing music with the 
Winsound Module
114
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 115 ---
 winsound.Beep( lC, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( hC, t)
 winsound.Beep( hE, t)
 winsound.Beep( hG, t)
 time.sleep(p)
    
 winsound.Beep( lG, 2*t)
  winsound.Beep( G, t)
 winsound.Beep( B, t)
 winsound.Beep( hD, t)
 time.sleep(p) 
    
 winsound.Beep( lA, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( A, t)
 winsound.Beep( hC, t)
 winsound.Beep( hE, t)
 time.sleep(p)
    
 winsound.Beep( lE, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( E, t)
 winsound.Beep( G, t)
 winsound.Beep( B, t)
 time.sleep(p)          
    
 winsound.Beep( lF, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( F, t)
 winsound.Beep( A, t)
 winsound.Beep( hC, t)
 time.sleep(p)      
    
 winsound.Beep( llC, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( C, t)
 winsound.Beep( E, t)
 winsound.Beep( G, t)
 time.sleep(p)
    
 winsound.Beep( lF, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( F, t)
 winsound.Beep( A, t)
 winsound.Beep( hC, t)
 time.sleep(p)         
    
 winsound.Beep( lG, 2*t)
 winsound.Beep( G, t)
 winsound.Beep( B, t)
 winsound.Beep( hD, t)
 time.sleep(p)
Sweet Music
Obviously the Winsound module is a Windows-only set of 
functions for Python. Open your IDLE in Windows and copy the 
code in. Press F5 to save and execute, then press the Enter key, 
as instructed in the code, to start the music.
Naturally you can swap out the winsound.Beep frequency and 
durations to suit your own particular music; or you can leave it as 
is and enjoy. Perhaps play around with the various methods to 
make other music.
For example, players of the Nintendo classic game, The Legend 
of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, can enjoy the game’s titular musical 
intro by entering:
import winsound
beep = winsound.Beep
 
c = [
 
(880, 700),
 
(587, 1000),
 
(698, 500),
 
(880, 500),
 
(587, 1000),
 
(698, 500),
 
(880, 250),
 
(1046, 250),
 
(988, 500),
 
(784, 500),
 
(699, 230),
 
(784, 250),
 
(880, 500),
 
(587, 500),
 
(523, 250),
 
(659, 250),
 
(587, 750)
]
 
s = c + c
 
for f, d in s:
 
beep(f, d)
115
www.bdmpublications.com
Playing music with the Winsound Module
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 116 ---
Text adventures are an excellent 
way to build your Python coding 
skills and have some fun at the 
same time. This example that we 
created will start you on the path 
to making a classic text adventure; 
where it will end is up to you.
The Adventure game uses just the time module to begin 
with, creating pauses between print functions. There’s a help 
system in place to expand upon, as well as the story itself.
ADVENTURE.PY
import time
print(“\n” * 200)
print(“>>>>>>>>>>Awesome Adventure<<<<<<<<<<\n”)
print(“\n” * 3)
time.sleep(3)
print(“\nA long time ago, a warrior strode forth from 
the frozen north.”)
time.sleep(1)
print(“Does this warrior have a name?”)
name=input(“> “)
print(name, “the barbarian, sword in hand and looking 
for adventure!”)
time.sleep(1)
print(“However, evil is lurking nearby....”)
time.sleep(1)
print(“A pair of bulbous eyes regards the hero...”)
time.sleep(1)
print(“Will”, name, “prevail, and win great fortune...”)
time.sleep(1)
print(“Or die by the hands of great evil...?”)
time.sleep(1)
print(“\n” *3)
print(“Only time will tell...”)
time.sleep(1)
print(‘...’)
time.sleep(1)
print(‘...’)
time.sleep(1)
print(‘...’)
time.sleep(1)
print(‘...’)
time.sleep(5)
print(“\n” *200)
print(‘’’      You find yourself at a small inn. There’s 
 little gold in your purse but your sword is sharp, 
 and you’re ready for adventure.
 With you are three other customers.
 A ragged looking man, and a pair of dangerous  
 looking guards.’’’)
def start():
 print(“\n ----------”)
 print(“Do you approach the...”)
 print(“\n”)
 print(“1. Ragged looking man”)
 print(“2. Dangerous looking guards”)
 cmdlist=[“1”, “2”]
	 cmd=getcmd(cmdlist)
Text Adventure Script
116
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 117 ---
 if cmd == “1”:
	 	
ragged()
 elif cmd == “2”:
	 	
guards()
def ragged():
 print(“\n” * 200)
 print(‘’’You walk up to the ragged looking man and 
 greet him.
  
He smiles a toothless grin and, with a strange 
  
accent, says.
  
“Buy me a cup of wine, and I’ll tell you of 
  
great treasure...’’’)
 time.sleep(2)
def guards():
 print(“\n” *200)
 print(‘’’You walk up to the dangerous looking guards 
 and greet them.
  
The guards look up from their drinks and 
  
snarl at you.
   
“What do you want, barbarian?” One guard reaches 
  
for the hilt of his sword...’’’)
 time.sleep(2)
def getcmd(cmdlist):
 cmd = input(name+”>”)
	 if cmd in cmdlist:
	 	
return cmd
 elif cmd == “help”:
  
print(“\nEnter your choices as detailed in 
  
the game.”)
  
print(“or enter ‘quit’ to leave the game”)
	 	
return getcmd(cmdlist)
 elif cmd == “quit”:
  
print(“\n-----------”)
  
time.sleep(1)
  
print(“Sadly you return to your homeland without 
  
fame or fortune...”)
  
time.sleep(5)
	 	
exit()
            
if _ _ name _ _ ==” _ _ main _ _ ”:
	 start()
Adventure Time
This, as you can see, is just the beginning of the adventure and 
takes up a fair few lines of code. When you expand it, and weave 
the story along, you’ll find that you can repeat certain instances 
such as a chance meeting with an enemy or the like.
We’ve created each of the two encounters as a defined set 
of functions, along with a list of possible choices under the 
cmdlist list, and cmd variable, of which is also a defined function. 
Expanding on this is quite easy, just map out each encounter and 
choice and create a defined function around it. Providing the user 
doesn’t enter quit into the adventure, they can keep playing.
There’s also room in the adventure for a set of variables designed 
for combat, luck, health, endurance and even an inventory or 
amount of gold earned. Each successful combat situation can 
reduce the main character’s health but increase their combat skills 
or endurance. Plus, they could loot the body and gain gold, or earn 
gold through quests.
Finally, how about introducing the random module. This will enable 
you to include an element of chance in the game. For example, in 
combat, when you strike an enemy you will do a random amount 
of damage as will they. You could even work out the maths 
behind improving the chance of a better hit based on your or your 
opponent’s combat skills, current health, strength and endurance. 
You could create a game of dice in the inn, to see if you win or lose 
gold (again, improve the chances of winning by working out your 
luck factor into the equation).
Needless to say, your text adventure can grow exponentially  
and prove to be a work of wonder. Good luck, and have fun with 
your adventure.
117
www.bdmpublications.com
Text Adventure Script
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 118 ---
You may be surprised to hear 
that one of the snippets of code 
we’re often asked for is some 
form of scrolling ticker. Whilst 
we’ve covered various forms of 
scrolling text previously, the ticker 
is something that seems to keep 
cropping up. So, here it is. 
We’re using Tkinter here along with the Time module to 
determine the speed the text is displayed across the window. 
TICKER.PY
import time
import tkinter as tk
root = tk.Tk()
canvas = tk.Canvas(root, root.title(“Ticker Code”), 
height=80, width=600, bg=”yellow”)
canvas.pack()
font = (‘courier’, 48, ‘bold’)
text _ width = 15
#Text blocks insert here....
s1 = “This is a scrolling ticker example. As you 
can see, it’s quite long but can be a lot longer if 
necessary... “
s2 = “We can even extend the length of the ticker 
message by including more variables... “
s3 = “The variables are within the s-values in 
the code. “
s4 = “Don’t forget to concatenate them all before the 
For loop, and rename the ‘spacer’ s-variable too.”
# pad front and end of text with spaces
s5 = ‘ ‘ * text _ width
# concatenate it all
s = s5 + s1 + s2 + s3 + s4 + s5
x = 1
y = 2
text = canvas.create _ text(x, y, anchor=’nw’, text=s, 
font=font)
dx = 1
dy = 0  # use horizontal movement only
# the pixel value depends on dx, font and length of text
pixels = 9000
for p in range(pixels):
 # move text object by increments dx, dy
 # -dx --> right to left
 canvas.move(text, -dx, dy)
 canvas.update()
 # shorter delay --> faster movement
 time.sleep(0.005)
 #print(k)  # test, helps with pixel value
    
root.mainloop()
Python Scrolling Ticker Script
Ticker Time
The obvious improvements to the Ticker code lie in the 
speed of the text and what the text will display. Otherwise 
you can change the background colour of the ticker window, 
the font and the font colour, along with the geometry of the 
Tkinter window if you want to.
Yet another interesting element that could be introduced is 
one of the many text to speech modules available for Python 
3. You could pip install one, import it, then as the ticker 
displays the text, the text to speech function will read out the 
variable at the same time, since the entire text is stored in 
the variable labelled ‘s’.
The ticker example can be used for system warnings, 
perhaps something that will display across your work or 
home network detailing the shutting down of a server 
over the weekend for maintenance; or even just to inform 
everyone as to what’s happening. We’re sure you will come 
up with some good uses for it.
118
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 119 ---
Sometimes the simplest code can be 
the most effective. Take for example, 
this Simple Python Calculator script. It’s 
based on the Create Your Own Modules 
section seen earlier but doesn’t utilise 
any external modules. 
We created some function definitions to begin with, then lead 
on to the user menu and inputs. It’s an easy piece of code to 
follow and as such can also be expanded well too.
CALCULATOR.PY
print(“----------Simple Python Calculator----------\n”)
def add(x, y):
   return x + y
def subtract(x, y):
   return x - y
def multiply(x, y):
   return x * y
def divide(x, y):
   return x / y
print(“Select operation.\n”)
print(“1.Add”)
print(“2.Subtract”)
print(“3.Multiply”)
print(“4.Divide”)
choice = input(“\nEnter choice (1/2/3/4):”)
num1 = int(input(“\nEnter first number: “))
num2 = int(input(“Enter second number: “))
if choice == ‘1’:
   print(num1,”+”,num2,”=”, add(num1,num2))
elif choice == ‘2’:
   print(num1,”-”,num2,”=”, subtract(num1,num2))
elif choice == ‘3’:
   print(num1,”*”,num2,”=”, multiply(num1,num2))
elif choice == ‘4’:
   print(num1,”/”,num2,”=”, divide(num1,num2))
else:
   print(“Invalid input”)
Simple Python Calculator
Improved Calculations
The obvious contender for improvement here is using the 
Create Your Own Modules route and extracting the function 
definitions as a module. You can then call the module and focus 
on the body of the code.
The other area of improvement is code itself. Where there’s 
just a single shot at making a calculation, you could encase it in 
a while loop, so once a value is presented the user is sent back 
to the main menu. Perhaps, improvement to the Invalid Input 
section is worth looking into as well.
119
www.bdmpublications.com
Python Scrolling Ticker Script/Simple Python Calculator
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 120 ---
Hangman is a great game to 
program into Python. It can be 
extremely complex, displaying 
graphics, the number of guesses 
left in the secret word, a huge 
bank of available words picked 
at random and countless other 
elements. It can also be quite 
simple. Here we have a mix 
between the two.
We’ve made a Hangman game board (the gallows) out of 
characters that can be displayed in the IDLE Shell, along with 
a huge bank of words to randomly choose from.
HANGMAN.PY
import random
board = [‘’’
>>>>>>>>>>Hangman<<<<<<<<<<
+---+
|   |
     |
     |
     |
     |
=========’’’, ‘’’
+---+
|    |
O   |
      |
      |
      |
=========’’’, ‘’’
+---+
|    |
O   |
|    |
      |
      |
=========’’’, ‘’’
 +---+
 |   |
 O   |
/|   |
     |
     |
=========’’’, ‘’’
 +---+
 |     |
 O    |
/|\  |
        |
        |
=========’’’, ‘’’
 +---+
 |     |
 O    |
/|\  |
/      |
Hangman Game Script
120
Code Repository
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 121 ---
        |
=========’’’, ‘’’
 +---+
 |     |
 O    |
/|\  |
/ \   |
        |
=========’’’]
class Hangman:
 def _ _ init _ _ (self,word):
  
self.word = word
  
self.missed _ letters = []
  
self.guessed _ letters = []
	 	
 def guess(self,letter):
  
if letter in self.word and letter not in self.
  
guessed _ letters:
  
 
self.guessed _ letters.append(letter)
  
elif letter not in self.word and letter not in 
  
self.missed _ letters:
  
 
self.missed _ letters.append(letter)
	 	
else:
	 	
	
return False
  
return True
	 	
 def hangman _ over(self):
  
return self.hangman _ won() or (len(self.missed _
	 	
letters) == 6)
	 	
 def hangman _ won(self):
  
if ‘ _ ’ not in self.hide _ word():
  
 
return True
	 	
return False
	 	
 def hide _ word(self):
  
rtn = ‘’
  
for letter in self.word:
  
 
if letter not in self.guessed _ letters:
  
 
 
rtn += ‘ _ ’
	 	
	
else:
  
 
 
rtn += letter
	 	
return rtn
	 	
 def print _ game _ status(self):
  
print (board[len(self.missed _ letters)])
  
print (‘Word: ‘ + self.hide _ word())
  
print (‘Letters Missed: ‘,) 
  
for letter in self.missed _ letters:
  
 
print (letter,) 
	 	
print ()
  
print (‘Letters Guessed: ‘,)
  
for letter in self.guessed _ letters:
  
 
print (letter,)
	 	
print ()
def rand _ word():
 bank = ‘ability about above absolute accessible 
	 accommodation accounting beautiful bookstore 
 calculator clever engaged engineer enough 
	 handsome refrigerator opposite socks interested 
 strawberry backgammon anniversary confused 
	 dangerous entertainment exhausted impossible 
 overweight temperature vacation scissors 
 accommodation appointment decrease development 
 earthquake environment brand environment necessary 
	 luggage responsible ambassador circumstance 
 congratulate frequent’.split()
 return bank[random.randint(0,len(bank))]
def main():
 game = Hangman(rand _ word())
 while not game.hangman _ over():
  
game.print _ game _ status()
  
user _ input = input(‘\nEnter a letter: ‘)
  
game.guess(user _ input)
 game.print _ game _ status() 
 if game.hangman _ won():
  
print (‘\nCongratulations! You have won!!’)
	 else:
  
print (‘\nSorry, you have lost.’)
  
print (‘The word was ‘ + game.word)
	 	
 print (‘\nGoodbye!\n’)
	 	
if _ _ name _ _ == “ _ _ main _ _ ”:
	 main()
QUIT()
Since this is the last example in our Python code repository, we 
thought we’d go out with a bang and feature the hangman 
gallows being drawn with each incorrect guess of the word. 
Don’t worry if it looks misaligned in the text here, this is merely 
due to the differences between using the Python IDLE editor 
and pasting the code into a word processor (which formats 
things differently).
There’s plenty you can do to improve, enhance and expand on 
what we’ve presented here. You can include a routine that will 
return an error if the user enters a number or character. You can 
include extra points for someone who guesses the entire word 
in one go rather than one letter at a time. Maybe you could add 
Chopin’s Funeral March should you lose the game; or something 
celebratory if you win.
Perhaps consider replacing the bank of words. They’re found 
under the bank list and could easily be swapped out for 
something more difficult. Recall the text document containing 
466,000 English words we used on Page 80’s Random Module? 
Perhaps you could swap the words in the bank to instead read 
the contents of the text file:
def rand _ word():
 
with open(“/home/pi/Downloads/words.txt”, “rt”) as f:
 
 
bank=f.readlines()
 
return bank[random.randint(0,len(bank))]
121
www.bdmpublications.com
Hangman Game Script
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 122 ---
Learn Object Orientated 
Programming with  
Scratch & Python
122
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 123 ---
Scratch is a powerful introduction 
to programming created by 
MIT (Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology). It’s an extremely high 
level programming language designed 
to teach children the building blocks 
of programming. It’s also designed 
to teach kids a popular programming 
methodology known as Object 
Orientated Programming (OOP). 
Scratch is extremely versatile and 
can work with Python and other 
code as you progress and create 
fascinating projects.
124	
Getting Started with Scratch
126	
Creating Scripts in Scratch
128	
Interaction in Scratch 
130	
Using Sprites in Scratch 
132	
Sensing and Broadcast 
134	
Objects and Local Variables
136	
Global Variables and a Dice Game
138	
Classes and Objects 
123
www.bdmpublications.com
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 124 ---
If you are completely new to programming then Scratch is the perfect place to 
start. With Scratch you can learn the building blocks of programming and important 
programming concepts in a highly visual interface.
Scratch can be run inside your web browser at scratch.mit.edu. You need to have Flash installed in your browser; if isn’t already, 
it can be installed from get.adobe.com/flashplayer. Sign up for an account with Scratch so you can save your programs.
INSTALLING SCRATCH
Scratch runs from inside the web browser. Click 
Create to open a new document. The Scratch 
interface opens in the web browser, click the maximise button on 
your browser so you have plenty of space to view the window and 
all its contents.
Let’s take a look at Scratch Cat. Use click and drag 
with the mouse to position him on the Stage. At 
the top, just above Scripts, you’ll see two icons for Grow and Shrink. 
Click one and click the cat to resize him. Shift-click on Scratch Cat 
and choose Info to access rotation controls. Click the blue back 
button to get back to the Sprites pane.
You can see the Scratch interface with a list of blue 
items in the Block Palette, an empty Script Area 
and a Stage. On the Stage will be an orange cartoon cat, known 
as “Scratch Cat”. This is the default sprite that comes with all new 
projects; you will also see smaller versions of the sprite above the 
Script Area and in the Sprites Panel.
Scratch Cat looks a little lonely on his white space, 
so let’s give him a background. Click the Stage icon 
to the left of the Sprites Pane. The Script Area switches to Backdrop 
Library displaying the available backgrounds. Click Music and Dance 
and choose spotlight-stage. Click OK.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Getting Started  
with Scratch
124
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 125 ---
The background appears on the Stage and Scratch 
Cat looks a lot happier. Let’s create a script that 
moves him to the stage. Click Sprite1 in the Sprites Pane to select 
the cat and click the Scripts tab to return to the Script Area. Now 
click the blue Motion tab at the top of the Block Palette.
Drag the turn [15] degrees block (with an 
anti-clockwise symbol) from the Block Palette 
to the Script Area. Now drag the move [10] steps block and 
connect it to the bottom of the Turn 15 Degrees block. They will 
snap together. Change the 10 in move [10] steps to 100. Our 
program is now ready. Click the script (the two blocks) to see what it 
does. Scratch Cat will rotate and move towards the stage.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Take the time to learn how to open and save your files, and open other test programs, before you get stuck into programming 
with Scratch.  There are lots of Scratch programs available so it’s easy to learn alongside other users.
SAVING SCRATCH FILES
Click File > Save Now to save your project. Enter 
a name in the New Filename box; we called ours 
“Scratch_Cat_On_Stage”. As we mentioned in both Python and 
Unix tutorials, it’s important to avoid any special characters and 
spaces in your filenames. Use underscores “_” instead.
Choose File > Go to My Stuff to exit the stage and 
view the saved file. Click the Scratch_Cat_On_
Stage link to view your file. You can add Instructions, Notes and 
Credits here, and Tags. Click See Inside to head back to viewing 
your code again.
Lots of example Scratch files can be found on the 
MIT website by clicking Explore. Here you can see 
a huge range of projects built by other users and you’ll also be 
able to share your own projects. Choose a project from Explore 
to open it.
You can run the project directly inside the main 
window by clicking the Green Flag icon. Click the 
Star icon to Favourite or bookmark the project and the Heart icon 
to like it. More importantly, click the See Inside to see the code 
used to create the project. This is a good way to learn how Scratch 
code is being used.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
125
www.bdmpublications.com
Getting Started with Scratch
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 126 ---
The program you make in Scratch is a script, or a bunch of scripts. In this tutorial we’ll 
take a look at how you construct your scripts to build up a great program. This is great 
starter practice for creating objects in Python. 
The scripts in Scratch are created by snapping together blocks.  These blocks are similar to the code you find in more complex 
programming languages, such as Python, but much easier to understand.
VISUAL CODING
Click Create to start a new Scratch project and 
name it Dancing Cat. You’re going to put your cat 
and some other characters on a dance floor and get them to bust 
some moves. Click Stage, then Music and Dance and choose party-
room. Drag the Scratch Cat graphic around the Stage to find a good 
starting position.
Click the Motion tab and drag the move [10] 
steps block and connect it beneath the when 
flag clicked block. A quick word about that [10]. When you write 
a number or word inside those square brackets, that’s the way of 
saying you can choose a value. It’s the equivalent of a variable”, 
because it varies. We’ll tell you which number or selection we’re 
using but you can use any you want. Play around.
Click on Sprite1 in the Sprites Panes and click the 
Scripts tab above the Scripts area.  Now click Events 
in the Blocks Pane and drag the when flag clicked block into the 
Scripts area. This block represents the start of your program. It tells 
Scratch to run through the blocks below it when we click the Green 
Flag icon above the Stage window.
It’s not much of a disco, so let’s add some sound. 
Click the sound tab and drag play drum [8] for 
[0.2] beats and connect it to the bottom of the stack of blocks. 
Click on the blocks and Scratch Cat will move and a sound will come 
from your speaker.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Creating Scripts in Scratch
126
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 127 ---
Dancing is a back and forth affair, so let’s get Scratch 
Cat moving back. Drag another move [10] steps 
block to the bottom of the stack. Now click the 10 and change it to 
-10 (minus 10). Entering minus figures moves the cat backwards. 
Drag another  play drum block to the bottom of the script. Pick a 
different drum sound. We chose 13.
Scratch Cat only moves back and forth once, which 
isn’t much of a party. Click Control and drag the 
forever block to the Script Area. Carefully position it beneath the 
when [flag] clicked block but above the move [10] steps 
block. The script should nest within the two prongs of the forever 
block. Click the Green Flag icon to start the disco. Click the red Stop 
icon to end the program.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Nothing is set in stone, and you can move your blocks in and out of scripts and even have several scripts or parts of scripts in 
the Script Area. Scratch is far more forgiving than other programming languages for experimentation.
EDITING SCRIPTS
It’s pretty bad form to use the forever block 
or a forever loop in programming. Programs are 
supposed to run from start to a finish. Even programs like Scratch 
have an end point when you quit the program. You want to replace 
the forever block with a repeat one. Click the forever block in 
your script and drag it down to separate it from the other blocks.
Your move and play drum blocks are still nested 
within the forever block though and you want 
to keep them. Click the topmost move block and drag it out of the   
forever block. It’s now good to get rid of the forever block so 
drag it to the left and back to the Blocks List to get rid of it.
Now drag a repeat [10] block from the block list 
and connect it to the when [flag] clicked block 
in the Script Area. Now drag the top play drum block of the stack 
inside the repeat [10] block. If you drag the top block all the 
blocks underneath move with it and the whole lot will be nested 
inside the repeat [10] stack.
You can position the stack anywhere on the Script 
Area and even keep the unused blocks around, 
although we think it’s good practice to keep only what you are 
using in the Script Area and remove any unused blocks. Click the 
Green Flag icon above the Stage Window to view Scratch Cat doing 
a short dance.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
127
www.bdmpublications.com
Creating Scripts in Scratch
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 128 ---
Your Scratch Cat is now dancing back and forth but wouldn’t it be great if you could 
control him. In this tutorial you’re going to look at creating keyboard interactions in 
Scratch. Let’s get our disco cat really grooving!
The only Control option we’ve really looked at so far is the when [flag] clicked block, which starts the program. Once the program 
is running it does its thing, right up until it finishes. You’re going to use the other Control blocks to do something more interesting.
INTERACTIVE CONTROL
Open the Dancing Cat program from previous 
tutorials. Select Sprite1 and click on Events so you 
can see the when [flag] clicked script. Now click Control in the 
Block Palette and drag the when [space] key pressed block to 
an empty part of the Script Area.
We’re going to make Scratch Cat jump up and down 
when we press the space bar. Click Motion and drag 
change y by [10] and clip it to the when [space] key 
pressed block. What’s with the “y”? This is what’s known as 
a “coordinate”.
You can drag and rearrange the block scripts to any 
part of the Script Area. We like to have our when 
[flag] clicked scripts in the top left but it really doesn’t matter 
where they are. It’s also worth spotting that we now have more than 
one script for Sprite1; you can have multiple scripts for each sprite in 
your program.
The position of each sprite on the stage is shown 
using two variables, x and y. These are referred 
to as the “coordinates”. The x is the sprites horizontal position 
on the stage whilst the y coordinate is the vertical position. Click 
and drag the sprite around the Stage and you’ll see the x and 
numbers change.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Interaction in Scratch 
128
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 129 ---
The centre of the Stage is x: 0 and y: 0. As you move 
the sprite up and to the right the numbers increase 
and as you move it left and down they decrease (going into negative 
numbers). So when we use the change y by [10] block it says, 
take the current value of y (the vertical position) and increase it by 
10. That makes our cat jump up.
  STEP 5
What goes up must come back down. So drag 
another change y by [10] block and attach it 
to the bottom of the when [space] key pressed script. Now 
change [10] to [-10]. Click the Green Flag and run the program. 
Now press the space bar and… oh no, nothing happens. We’ve just 
encountered our first “bug”.
  STEP 6
We know that there’s something wrong with our script and we want to see Scratch Cat jump when the space bar is pressed. So 
let’s quickly squash this bug and see it working.
FIXING YOUR SCRIPT
The problem is that programs are super fast and 
highly visual programs like Scratch can move in 
the blink of an eye and that’s what is happening here. If you tap 
the space bar repeatedly while the program is running you’ll see 
Scratch Cat flickering as it jumps up and down.
The challenge is that our motion controls move the 
cat instantly from one place to another, so fast that 
we can’t see. Sometimes this is fine, like our back and forth dance, 
but obviously we need to slow down the jump. Help is at hand. 
Click the Motion tab to view the Motion blocks.
Drag a wait [1] secs block from the Blocks 
Palette and insert it underneath the change [y] 
by 10 block. Now press the space bar on the keyboard to see 
Scratch cat jump up, and then back down. Notice that you don’t 
need to press the Green Flag icon to run the program; the Green 
Flag starts our other script.
We think Scratch Cat stays in the air a bit too long. 
We want a jump, not a levitation effect. Change 
the wait [1] secs variable to [0.25]. This is a quarter of a 
second and will give us a more fun hop. Press the Green Flag to 
start the script and tap the space bar whenever you want Scratch 
Cat to jump.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
129
www.bdmpublications.com
Interaction in Scratch
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 130 ---
So far we’ve just got the one sprite in Scratch, the eponymous Scratch Cat. In this 
tutorial we’re going to add a second sprite and see how to make the two sprites interact 
with each other.
Sprites are 2D (flat) graphics drawn on top of a background. They are commonly used to display information in games such as 
health bars, scores or lives. Older games are composed entirely of sprites, just like our Scratch project.
LOOK SPRITE
We’re going to add another sprite to our project and 
a second character to the scene. Click the Choose 
Sprite From Library button, just above the Sprites pane. This opens 
the Sprite Library that displays all the different characters available.
All the blocks on the Script Area have vanished. The 
scripts we built for Scratch Cat relate to that object, 
not to our new sprite. Click on Sprite1 in the Sprites pane to view 
the Scratch Cat scripts again. Then click Giga to return to your  
Giga character. 
Click on the Fantasy link in the sidebar and choose 
Giga. Click OK to add the character to the stage. 
Click and drag the sprite to reposition Giga to the right of Scratch 
Cat. Notice that a Giga icon has joined Sprite1 in the Sprites pane.
Now that we have more than one sprite, it’s a 
good idea to name them. Click the “i” icon next to 
Sprite1. Change Sprite1 in the text box to Scratch Cat. Take a look at 
the other options here. You can remove a sprite from the stage by 
unticking the Show checkbox, without deleting it from the project.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using Sprites in Scratch 
130
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 131 ---
Select Giga and choose Events. Drag a when 
[space] key pressed and change [space] to 
[right arrow]. Add a change x by [10] block beneath. 
Shift-click the script and choose duplicate to create another. For the 
second script change the when [right arrow] key pressed to 
[left arrow] and change x by [10] to [-10]. 
We’re quite sure you can see where this is going. 
Press the Green Flag icon and our Scratch Cat object 
will start to dance and still jumps with space, whilst our other 
object, Giga, can be moved left and right using the arrow keys on 
our keyboard. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Our two objects, Giga and Scratch Cat don’t have to look like the original characters. That’s just the name we’ve given to each 
sprite. The visual appearance is a costume and our objects can change their costume and look completely different.  
CHANGING COSTUMES
Select Giga in the Sprite Pane and click the 
Costumes tab. The Scripts Area now displays the 
costumes being used by Giga, including the current look. Choose 
giga-c in the list on the sidebar; this gives our sprite a different 
pose. Switch back to giga-a for now.
Let’s use costume changes to animate Giga. Click 
Events and drag when flag clicked block to 
the Scripts Area. This block will activate at the same time as the 
Scratch Cat scripts when the Green Flag icon is clicked.
Attach a repeat [10] block and inside it place 
wait [1] secs. Change [1] to [0.5]. Click 
Looks and drag a next costume block into the repeat block. 
Now Giga will switch to the next costume every half a second, 
creating an animation effect.
Click the Green Flag icon to start the animation. 
Scratch Cat now moves back and forth, tapping out 
a beat, and Giga animates through four different poses. You can 
move Giga left and right using the arrow keys. It’s starting to form 
into an interactive scene.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
131
www.bdmpublications.com
Using Sprites in Scratch
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 132 ---
Get your sprites and scripts to communicate with each other. The concept of Sensing 
and Broadcast is similar to the way objects communicate in Python. This tutorial will 
walk you through the process. 
Earlier we looked at how you could interact with scripts, using the keyboard to move the sprites but scripts and sprites can 
interact with each other, sending messages and responding to events.
MORE INTERACTION
Scripts can broadcast messages to each other. These 
can be used to start other scripts or respond to 
events. You’re going to get Scratch Cat to respond to the Giga and 
say “Watch Out!!!” if the two sprites touch. Select Scratch Cat in the 
Sprites Pane so you can view its Script Area.
The options for interaction between the sprites are 
found in the Sensing part of the Block Palette. The 
one we are looking for is touching, at the top. Notice that this is a 
different shape to ones you are used to. It is designed to fit in the 
slot next to our if block. Drag the touching block into the spare 
slot in the if block.
You ‘ve looked at ‘if’ and ‘else’ in Python, so now 
you need to look at them in Scratch. Programs 
work around a few simple terms and ‘if this then do that’ is one of 
them. On our stage, you want to say, “if Giga touches Scratch then 
Scratch says ‘Watch Out!!!’” Click Control and drag an if block to the 
Script Area.
The touching block responds to the condition 
of our sprite; in this case if it’s touching another 
sprite. However, we need to tell it which one. Click the arrow in the 
touching block and choose Giga from the list. There are a couple of 
default options, mouse pointer and edge. These are handy if you’re 
making games.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Sensing and Broadcast 
132
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 133 ---
We’ve got our if, what we now need is a response. 
Click Looks and drag a say [Hello!] for 2 
secs block and insert it inside the if block. Change [Hello!] to 
[Watch Out!!!]. Try to run the program. Nothing happens! That’s 
because our if script isn’t part of the when flag clicked script.
How do we get our ‘if’ script to run alongside the 
other scripts? We could put the if block inside 
when flag clicked but it would look big and ugly and do two 
different things. We could add a second when [flag] clicked block to 
the if block but that would only work if they were touching at the 
start. The answer is to use a broadcast block.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
The broadcast block enables one script to interact with the others. It can be used to tell scripts to run and is ideal for bigger 
projects where each sprite does several things at once.
BROADCASTING
Click the Events tab in Scripts and look for the 
when I receive block. Drag this and connect 
it to the top of the if block. We need to set the receiver, i.e. the 
message it gets from the other script. Click the arrow next to 
receive to reveal the Message name window.
You can call the message anything you want but 
it should start with a lowercase letter and in this 
instance you are going to use the word “init”. This stands for 
“initialize” and getting the lingo right now will make your life much 
easier when you move to a more complex language. Click OK.
Now we need to broadcast that ‘init’ message 
from our when [flag] clicked script so it runs at the 
same time. Drag a broadcast block to the Script Area and insert 
between the when flag clicked block and the repeat [10] 
block. Now click the arrow in broadcast and choose ‘init’.
Our program is almost ready but our if script only 
works once, when the Green Flag icon is clicked. 
We’re going to place it inside a Forever block. This is okay though 
because it’s not our main program and we are also going to add 
a stop all block to the end of our when flag clicked block. 
Click the Green Flag to see your program run.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
133
www.bdmpublications.com
Sensing and Broadcast
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 134 ---
You’ve already met variables but Scratch makes them easy to understand. What isn’t so 
obvious in Python is how variables are stored locally to objects. This is where Scratch 
helps. You’re going to create a dice game to help understand this.
Objects, like your Scratch Cat sprite, can have their own variables. This could be the player score or the amount of ammunition 
left. These are stored inside the object and are known as “local”. Variables used by all objects are known as ‘global’.
ARE YOU LOCAL OR GLOBAL?
You’re going to leave the disco behind. Choose File > 
New. You start with a blank stage containing a single 
Scratch Cat sprite. Click Control and drag a when flag clicked 
block to the Script Area.
Click Make a variable and enter dice1 into the ? 
window making sure that your variable starts with a 
lowercase letter. There are two options here: For all sprites 
and For this sprite only. For all sprites allows every 
sprite to use the dice; this is known as a global variable. 
You ‘re going to create a simple game where Scratch 
Cat rolls two dice and wins if they’re both the same 
number. Click Data. Unlike other sections there are no blocks here; 
instead we have to create the variables we need. We need two, one 
for each dice.
For this sprite only means that only this 
sprite can use the two dice variables. this is known 
as a local variable. This is useful if you want to create another 
character with their own set of dice and play against each other. 
We’re doing that in the next tutorial, so choose For this sprite only 
and click OK.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Objects and  
Local Variables
134
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 135 ---
A whole bunch of blocks appears in the Block 
Palette. We can now use our dice1 variable but 
we want two dice, so click Make a variable again and this time 
enter dice2. Remember to choose For this sprite only 
and click OK.
Both the dice1 and dice2 variables are currently 
empty. They could be anything we wanted, but 
we want them to be a random number between 1 and 6. Drag the 
set [dice1] to [0] block and click it underneath the when 
flag clicked block. Drag another set [dice1] to [0] block 
underneath and change the [dice1] setting to [dice2].
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Operators are used to change the values of variables. Some of these will be familiar; you’ve used the addition operator ‘+’ to 
add two numbers together. Programs can also check if numbers are equal, bigger or smaller than each other or even not equal.
SMOOTH OPERATORS
Click the Operator tab and drag a pick random 
1 to 10 block and drop it into the [0] in set 
dice1 to [0]. Change the [10] to a [6] so it reads set dice1 
to pick random [1] to [6]. When we click the Green Flag 
it will pick a number between 1 and 6 and store it in the dice1 
variable.  Add a pick random [1] to [10] block to dice 2 and 
also set it to [6].
We need to check the two dice. Click the Control 
tab and drag the if else block to the script. 
This block is like the if block we used before but it says, “if this 
happens, do this; if not, do this instead.” Now click operators and 
look for the = block. Drag it into the space next to if.
The = operator checks if two things are the same 
but we need to tell it to check our variables. Click 
Data and drag dice1 to the space on the left of the = block. Drag   
dice2 to the space on the right of the = block. 
Finally click the Looks tab and drag say [Hello!] 
blocks into the if and else spaces. Change the   
say [Hello!] text in if to [I win!!!] and in else to [Oh no. 
I lose!]. Click the Green Flag to play the game.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
135
www.bdmpublications.com
Objects and Local Variables
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 136 ---
We’re going to create a game where two sprites play dice with each other and the sprite 
with the highest score wins. This lets us examine the idea of more than one object, each 
with its own set of local variables. 
We’re going to start with the dice game from the previous tutorial, but create a second character. The fancy OOP word for this 
is “instantiation”: creating an instance of something – in this case another instance of Scratch Cat.
DOUBLE TROUBLE
Let’s add a second character to the Stage. Shift click 
on Scratch Cat on the stage and choose Duplicate.  
Click OK. Rearrange the two characters on the stage so they’re 
stood side by side. Use the Sprite Info Window to give them names: 
“Vic” and “Bob”.
You can check this out by clicking the Green Flag 
icon. Vic and Bob will both roll dice1 and dice2 but 
each gets its own random result (shown in the Stage). We’re going 
to change the game to one where the two dice are added together 
(highest score wins). Disconnect the If block from the script and drag 
it to the Block Palette.
Select Bob and click Data in the Script Palette and 
you’ll see dice1 and dice2. Bob received his own 
set of dice when we duplicated him but he doesn’t share dice1 and 
dice2 with Vic. Place checks in the boxes next to dice1 and dice2 so 
you can see them on the Stage.
We need two new variables: one for Vic’s total, and 
one for Bob’s. Click Make a variable and enter 
vic_total. This time choose For all sprites then click OK. 
With Vic still selected, click Make a variable again and enter  
bob_total. Click OK.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Global Variables 
and a Dice Game
136
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 137 ---
Imagine both characters writing their totals on a 
blackboard that they share, but each has its own 
pair of dice. The totals are global and shared across both characters; 
the dice are local to each object.
Drag set­ [dice2] to [0] from the block 
palette and connect it to the script. Change dice2 
to vic_total.  Now click Operators and drag the + block to the 
[0]. Click Data and drag dice1 to the left side of the + block and   
dice2 to the right side. This adds up the dice1 and dice2 variables, 
and stores the combined value in vic_total.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
The sprite with the highest score is going to win our game. This is decided using the greater than symbol >. This sits between 
two numbers, i.e. 3 > 2 and lets you know if the number on the left is bigger than the one on the right.
GREATER THAN
Both sprites are going to announce their score and 
the one with the highest score will say, “I win!”. 
Click Looks and drag say [hello] for 2 secs. Now click Data 
and drag vic_total to replace [hello]. The first part of the 
game is ready, we’re going to use an   if block with an > operator 
for the next part of the game. 
Click Control and drag an if block to the script. 
Now click Operators and drag the > operator to the 
slot in the if block. Click Variables and drag vic_total to the left 
of the > block and bob_total to the right. Finally click Looks and 
drag a say [hello!] block inside the if block and change the 
text to [I win!].
Bob needs to run the same script, only with bob_
total in place of cat_total. We could write Bob with 
the same code but the point of objects is that you can stamp out 
copies. Shift-click Bob and choose Delete. Now Shift-click Vic and 
choose Duplicate. Click the Info icon and rename Vic2 as Bob.
You need to change Bob’s variables. Change 
set vic_total to set bob_total and say 
vic_total to say bob_total. Finally swap around the vic_
total and bob_total in the if block. Now click the Green 
Flag icon to play the game. Vic and Bob role their dice, and the 
winner is announced.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
137
www.bdmpublications.com
Global Variables and a Dice Game
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 138 ---
Modern coding uses a style called Object Orientated Programming, or OOP for short. 
In OOP you group together variables and functions into small blocks of code called 
objects. These objects then make up your program.
OOP can be hard to explain, but makes sense when you start using it. If you’ve used Scratch then you already have an idea of 
what an object looks like, it looks like a sprite. This is why we detoured into Scratch. It’s great for learning OOP.              
SCRATCH THAT
In this tutorial we’re going to open the dice_game 
program that we created earlier in Scratch. Resize 
the window and place Scratch on the left-hand side of the screen. 
Next we’re going to recreate this game in Python using objects, so 
you can see how objects are similar to Scratch sprites.
In OOP we don’t design objects. Instead we design 
a blueprint for our object, called a “Class”. Think of 
it like a blueprint or stamp. Vic and Bob are both dice-rolling cats, so 
we create a blueprint for a dice-rolling animal. We then stamp out 
two identical objects from that blueprint. One called “Vic” the other 
called “Bob”. We’re going to need the random number module, so 
enter this line:
from random import randint
Open Python 2 and choose File > New Window. 
Resize the Editor window to the right-hand size of 
the screen. Choose File > Save As and name it dice_game. Now let’s 
have a look at the objects in Scratch. We have two: Vic and Bob. 
Each has three variables (two dice and a total); both pick random 
numbers between 1 and 6 and check to see if their total is bigger 
than the other.
Now let’s define our class, which we’re going to call 
DiceAnimal. Enter:
class DiceAnimal():	
 
      dice1 = 0	
 
      dice2 = 0	
 
      total = 0	
Notice the funny capitalisation of DiceAnimal. This is known as 
CamelCase and class definitions should be named in this fashion.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Classes and Objects 
138
Learn Object Orientated Programming with Scratch & Python
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 139 ---
Now we’re going to define a function that rolls both 
dice, and adds the two together to create the total. 
Inside the class, indented four lines to line up with dice1, dice2 and 
total, enter this: 
def rolldice(self):	
 
          self.dice1 = random.randint(1, 6)	 
          self.dice2 = random.randint(1, 6)	 
          self.total = self.dice1 + self.dice2
Look at Scratch, and you’ll see this is the same as 
the set dice1 to pick random 1 to 6 block. But what 
are those self bits about? Remember that Vic and Bob have their 
own dice. Vic’s dice are going to be accessed use vic.dice1 and vic.
dice2 and Bob’s using bob.dice1 and bob.dice2. But the class doesn’t 
know what we’re going to call each object; instead it uses “self” as a 
placeholder. This works no matter what name each object has.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Now that our class is ready, we need to create two characters from it. One ‘vic’ and one ‘bob’. These are known as objects, and 
also sometimes as instances (or ‘object instance’). Because each one is an instance of the DiceAnimal class.
CREATING OBJECTS
Creating an object in OOP has a big fancy name: 
“instantiation”. Don’t be impressed by the 
language, all it means is creating an instance of your class. And this 
is exactly the same as creating a variable, only instead of passing in 
a number, or string, you make it equal to your class. Enter this.
vic = DiceAnimal()	
 
bob = DiceAnimal()	
There, that wasn’t hard at all.
You now have two objects, a vic and a bob. You 
access the variables and functions inside the 
object using the objects name followed by a dot. To access Vic’s 
dice, you use 
vic.dice1 and vic.dice2. We’re going to get both objects to roll their 
dice and store the total in their own self.total. Enter this:
vic.rolldice()	 
bob.rolldice()	
Now we’re going to use dot notation to access 
the values inside both the cat and lobster. Enter 
this code:
print “Vic rolled a”, vic.dice1, “and 
a”, vic.dice2 
print “Bob rolled a”, bob.dice1, “and 
a”, bob.dice2
Finally, we’re going to use if, elif and else statements to 
create the game.
Enter this code:
if vic.total > bob.total:	
 
      print “Vic wins!”	
 
elif bob.total > vic.total:	  
      print “Bob wins”	
 
else:	  
      print “It’s a draw”	
Press F5 to run the game.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
139
www.bdmpublications.com
Classes and Objects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 140 ---
Getting to Know 
the Command Line
140
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 141 ---
Linux is an ideal platform for using 
Python on. It’s free, Python is already 
integrated with it, it’s open source 
and developed by a community of 
like-minded coders and freethinkers. 
However, before you dive into 
programming on Linux, it’s best to 
learn how to manipulate the command 
line from where you’ll be doing all your 
Python programming from.
142	
Discovering Unix? 
144	
Using the Unix Filesystem 
146	
Listing and Viewing Files 
148	
Creating and Deleting Files
150	
Create and Remove Directories
152	
Copying, Moving and Renaming Files
154	
Using the Man Pages
156	
Editing Text Files 
158	
Getting to Know Users 
160	
Ownership and Permissions
162	
Useful System and Disk Commands
164	
Managing Programs and Processes
166	
Input, Output and Pipes 
168	
Using Grep Pattern Matching
170	
Tab Completion and History
172	
Using Python Code in Linux Scripts
141
www.bdmpublications.com
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 142 ---
Understanding Unix and its relationship with Linux, macOS and Windows is confusing 
for the newcomer; terms like Shell, Terminal and Command Line complicate matters 
further. In this tutorial we look at what Unix actually is.
Linux is a Unix-like system and you can use Unix commands to control it. Apple’s macOS is a Unix system with a flashy interface. 
Windows is the only major OS not based on Unix but it has a Unix interface so you can use Unix in Windows.
UNDERSTANDING UNIX
Learning how to use the command line is vital to 
controlling files on a computer and interaction with 
files is a large part of programming in Python (and other languages). 
Getting to Unix on a Linux OS is very easy. Click on Dash or press 
Super and search for “terminal”. Open the Terminal app, then you 
should right-click and choose Lock To Launcher.
Bash on Ubuntu on Windows is a relatively new 
addition to Windows 10; it was included in the 
Window 10 Anniversary Update. It’s also a bit more complex to get 
to. First you need to update to the latest version of Windows 10. 
Then open Settings > Update & Security > For Developers. Now 
choose Developer Mode.
In macOS you can access Terminal through the 
Terminal app located inside Utilities folder, inside 
Applications. It’s easier to use Spotlight (command-Space) and 
search for Terminal. Right-click the app icon in the Dock and choose 
Options > Keep In Dock.
Now click in the search window and enter “turn 
windows features” and select Turn Windows 
Features On or Off. Scroll down the list to find Windows Subsystem 
for Linux. Set it to On and click OK. You will need to restart 
your computer.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Discovering Unix? 
142
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 143 ---
Now click Start and look for Bash on Ubuntu on 
Windows under Most Used. If you can’t find it, then 
use Cortana to look for Bash. The first time it runs you will be asked 
to accept the terms of service. From then on it will open in the root 
folder (empty by default).
The Bash command line accepts Unix commands 
but it’s not always Unix. On Linux and Windows 
it’s a Unix-like system called “GNU”; however everybody says Unix 
because on the surface it’s by-and-large indistinguishable from Unix. 
So the words Terminal, Unix, Bash and Command Line are often 
used interchangeably. Mostly it means “a text command you enter 
to control your computer”.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Unix now works on just about any system. Apple’s macOS actually is a Unix system with a flashy interface. Windows is the only 
major OS not based on Unix but it has a Unix interface so you can use Unix in Windows.
GETTING SYSTEM INFORMATION
One of the neatest things you can do to get 
started is to enter some commands in Unix to get 
some information about your computer. Start by entering uname 
-s. This gives you the kernel. Now enter uname -o to see the 
operating system, such as “GNU/Linux”. Finally enter uname -a to 
see all of the system information.
When a Linux computer system boots a lot of text 
heads up the screen. These are messages from 
the kernel and you can see them using dmesg. There’s usually too 
much text to fit on the screen, so use dmesg | less to view the 
text one screen at a time. Press any key to move to the next screen 
of text and press q to exit the text. 
Get information on your computer’s hardware 
using the command cat /proc/cpuinfo. 
This displays the processor, model name and CPU architecture 
information. You’ll see a separate section for each of the processor 
cores on your computer.
Enter cat /proc/meminfo to view detailed 
information about the memory installed on 
your Linux computer. This tells you the total and free amount 
of memory. You can also use vmstat to display a compact 
summary of system activity. Entering top runs a loop on system 
activity, similar to using Task Manager. Press Control-C to exit the 
top display.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
143
www.bdmpublications.com
Discovering Unix?
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 144 ---
Navigating files and directories in Unix from the command line is a vital skill. It will 
enable you to figure out the structure of your computer and see where all the 
documents and directories are placed. 
For people raised on desktop computers, the idea of viewing and moving files and directories in a text environment can be 
daunting. Don’t worry, it’s easy to view and move files and directories and navigate the filesystem. Here we’ll show you how.
GETTING AROUND
First you’re going to look at directories and the 
directory path. A directory is the same thing as a 
folder, only in Unix it’s always called a directory. Directories are 
placed inside each other using a ‘/’ character. Enter pwd. This stands 
for Print Working Directory and displays “/home/[user]”; where 
“user” is your account name”.
Enter ls to view the contents of the current 
directory. You should see Desktop, Documents, 
Downloads and other directories in blue. You may also see other 
items depending on how much you have used your computer. The 
colour code is worth knowing. Files are white, executable files 
(programs) are green and archived files are red.
When you log in to your computer you don’t start at 
the base of the hard drive, known as the ‘root’ (also 
known as the “top-most directory”). Instead you begin inside your 
user directory. Directories are indicated by the ‘/’ symbol. So ‘/home/
[user]’ tells you that in the root is a directory called “home” and the 
next ‘/’ says that inside ‘home’ is a directory with your name. That’s 
where you start.
Now we’re going to move from the user directory 
into the Documents directory. Enter cd 
Documents. Note the capital “D”. Unix is case sensitive, which means 
you have to enter the exact name including correct capitalisation. 
The cd command stands for “change directory”. Now enter pwd 
again to view the directory path. It will be /home/[user]/Documents. 
Enter ls to view the files inside the Documents directory.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using the Unix Filesystem 
144
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 145 ---
It is important to know the difference between the working directory, root directory and home. There are also two types of 
path, Absolute and Relative. These are easier to understand than they sound. Let’s take a look.
ABSOLUTE VS RELATIVE PATHS
So how do we get back up to the Unix directory? We 
use a command cd .. ­– two dots in Unix means the 
directory above, also known as the “parent” directory. Incidentally a 
single dot  is used for the same directory. You’ll never use cd . to 
switch to the same directory but it’s worth knowing because some 
commands need you to specify the current directory. 
It’s time to learn the single most important 
command line tip. You press the Tab key to expand 
what you are writing and let Unix fill out the rest. We’re going to 
switch to the Downloads folder but this time enter cd Dow and 
press Tab. The command is expanded to “cd Downloads/”. You can 
use Tab whenever you have to write out a long filename.
The root directory is always ‘/’. Entering ls / lists 
the contents of root and entering cd / switches to 
the root directory. This is important because there is a difference 
between ls Documents and ls /Documents. The first command 
lists the contents of the Documents inside the working directory 
that, if you are in home, will work. 
By default commands like ls use the working 
directory. That is the current directory that you’re 
looking at and is set to your home directory by default (/users/
[name]). Using pwd (Print Working Directory) lets you know what the 
working directory is and using cd changes the working directory. 
There is also an absolute path shortcut to your user 
directory and that is the tilde “~” character. Entering 
ls ~ always lists the contents of your home directory while cd ~ 
moves straight to you home directory no matter what your working 
directory is. You can also use this shortcut wherever you are; enter   
ls ~/Documents to display the contents of the Documents folder.
The second command, ls /Documents, attempts 
to list the contents of Documents inside the root 
directory because the path started with ‘/’, which is root. There 
is typically no Documents directory in root, so you will get a “No 
such file or directory” error. Starting a path with ‘/’ is known as an 
“absolute path” while starting without the ‘/’ is known as a “relative 
path” because it is relative to your working directory.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
145
www.bdmpublications.com
Using the Unix Filesystem
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 146 ---
Unlike a graphical interface, you need to ask Unix to list and display the files and 
directories in the command line interface. List is one the Unix commands that you will 
use the most, so it’s important to truly understand how to use List properly.
Computer operating systems are made up of files and directories. Whilst you’re aware of your own files, modern OS’s keep other 
files out of sight. However, in the command line, you get access to every file on your system.
LOOKING AT FILES
You’ve already looked at ls, which lists the files 
in the working directory but you are more likely 
to use a command like ls -l. The bit after the command (the 
‘-lah’) is known as the argument. This is an option that modifies the 
behaviour of the command. 
After the permission letters come a single number. 
This is the number of files in the item. If it’s a file 
then it will be 1 but if it’s a directory it will be at least 2. This is 
because each directory contains two hidden files, one with a single 
dot (.) and one with two dots (..). Directories containing files or other 
directories will have a higher number.
The -l argument lists files and directories in long 
format. Each file and directory is now on a single 
line and before each file is a lot of text. First you’ll see lots of letters 
and dashes, like ‘drwxr-xr-x’. Don’t worry about these for now, they 
are known as ‘permissions’ and you’ll come to those later.
Next you’ll see your user name listed twice on each 
line. This refers to the user rather than the name of 
your computer. The first is the owner of the file and the second is 
the group. Typically these will be the same and you’ll see either your 
username or ‘root’. Enter ls -l / to view the files and directories 
in the root directory that belong to the root account.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Listing and Viewing Files 
146
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 147 ---
The next number relates to the size of the file, in 
bytes. In Unix each text file is made up of letters 
and each letter takes up a byte. So our “sphinx.txt” file has 37 bytes 
and has 37 characters in the document. Files and directories can 
be extremely large and hard to determine so use ls -lh. The h 
argument ‘humanizes’ the number making it easier to read.
Finally you should be aware that there are many 
hidden files in Unix. These are listed using the -a 
argument. Hidden files and directories begin with a dot (.), so you 
should never start a file or directory with a dot, unless you want to 
hide it. Typically you’ll combine all three arguments together into 
the command ls -lah.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Now that you know how to view the contents of your hard drive you’ll start to notice a lot of directories with names like bin, sbin, 
var and dev. These are the files and directories that you are kept away from on a Mac and won’t encounter on a Windows PC.
SOME COMMON DIRECTORIES
Enter ls -lah / to view all of the files and 
directories, including the hidden items, in the root 
directory of your hard drive. Here you will see all the items that 
make up Unix. It’s worth taking the time to know some of them.
Bin is a directory that stores binaries. This is the 
Unix way of saying programs or applications. 
Sbin is for system binaries, which are the programs that make 
up your system. Dev contains references to your devices, so 
hard drive, keyboard, mouse and so on. Etc contains your system 
configuration files.
Entering ls /home displays the contents of your 
home directory, which contains your user directory. 
So entering ls/home/[name] (ls /home/lucy in our case) is 
the same as just ls from the home directory. This is where you 
are expected to place most of the documents you create. Don’t 
confuse home with usr. The /usr directory is where find you find 
program tools and libraries.
Lib is a directory that contains libraries of code 
that are referred to by other programs; different 
programs share files in Lib. Var is short for various, which is mostly 
files used by the system but you may need to work with items here. 
Finally there is a directory called tmp, which is for temporary files; 
files placed here are on your system for the short term and can be 
deleted from the system.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
147
www.bdmpublications.com
Listing and Viewing Files
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 148 ---
Discover how to make and remove files in Unix. Using Touch to create files is a handy 
skill to learn but it’s vital you learn to delete files carefully and correctly when using the 
command line interface. In this tutorial we’ll show you how to make and remove files.
Once you learn to recognise the files and directories that make up Unix, it’s time to learn how to make your own. Knowing how 
to make, edit and delete files and directories is essential if you want to make your own projects.
CREATING FILES
You’re going to create a file using a command 
called “Touch”. Touch is an interesting tool that 
reaches out to a file or directory and touches it, which updates the 
modification time. You can see touch in access using ls -l and 
checking the time next to any file or directory. 
If you try to touch a file that doesn’t exist you create 
a blank file with that name. Enter cd Documents and 
enter touch testfile and ls -l to view the file. You’ll now have 
a new file in Document called “testfile”. Notice that the size of the 
file is 0 because it has nothing in it.
Now enter touch Videos or the name of any 
file or directory and ls -l again and notice that 
the time has changed. It now matches the current time. You might 
be wondering what this has to do with creating files. Touch has a 
second, more popular, use and that is to create files.
A quick word about file names. Remember that Unix 
is case sensitive, so if you enter touch Testfile 
with a capital T you won’t update “testfile”; instead you’ll create 
a second file called Testfile. Enter ls -l to see both files. This is 
confusing, so most people stick with using lowercase letters at 
all times. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Creating and Deleting Files
148
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 149 ---
You’ve created some files that you don’t want, so how do you go about removing them? It turns out that deleting files on your 
Unix is super easy. Which is a problem, so be careful.
REMOVING FILES
Another important thing to know is never to use a 
space in your file names. If you try to enter touch 
test file you create a document called test and a document called 
file. There are ways to read and write files containing spaces though; 
you use a backslash followed by space “\ “. However don’t ever use 
an underscore character (“_”) instead.
Here are some other file names to avoid: 
#%&{}\<>*?/$!’”:@+`|=. The full-stop (.) is used 
to create an extension to a file, and is usually used to indicate a file 
type, such as textfile.txt or compressedfile.zip. Starting a file with 
a full-stop makes it invisible. Don’t use full-stops in place of spaces, 
stick to underscores and don’t use spaces.
To get rid of files you use the rm command. Enter 
 rm Testfile to delete the file called Testfile (with 
the uppercase “t”). Enter ls -l and you’ll find it’s gone but where 
is it? It’s not in the Trash or Recycle Bin, like on a Mac or Windows PC. 
It’s deleted completely and cannot be recovered. Bear this in mind 
and always think before deleting files. 
Enter ls -l to view the files in your home 
directory. If you’ve followed the steps before then 
you should have four files: file, test, testfile and Testfile. You’re 
going to get rid of these items because they were created as 
an example.
You see that ls test* matches two files: “test” 
and “testfile”; but not the file called “file”. That’s 
because it didn’t match the “test” part of “test*”. Enter rm -i 
test* to remove both files. It will say “rm: remove regular empty 
file ‘test’?” Enter y and press Return twice. Finally enter rm file to 
get rid of the confusing “file” file.
You’re going to use a wildcard (*) to delete our next 
two files but again this is something you really need 
to do with care. So you’re going to use the “i” argument with it to 
request confirmation. Enter ls test* to view files that match 
the word test and any other characters. The * character is called a 
“wildcard” and it means any characters here.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
149
www.bdmpublications.com
Creating and Deleting Files
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 150 ---
Directories, also known as “folders”, form the structure of your filesystem. They contain 
all the files used to create the Unix operating system, as well as files you create yourself. 
Learning how to make and remove directories is an important Unix skill to learn.
Now that you know how to create files, you’ll want to learn how to make directories as well as move items around. Directories 
are the same thing as folders, although in Unix they are always called “directories”.
MANAGING FILES AND DIRECTORIES
You’re working from the home directory, so enter 
cd ~ if you’re not already in it. Enter ls to quickly 
view all the directories currently in the home location. Directories 
are created using the mkdir command (make directory). Enter 
mkdir testdir to create a new directory in your home directory. 
Enter ls again to see it. 
Like touch, you can create multiple directories 
at once with the mkdir command. Enter mkdir 
testdir2 testdir3 and enter ls. You’ll now find several 
directories called testdir. Like files, you should know this means 
you can’t, and really shouldn’t, even be trying to create directories 
with spaces.
The mkdir command is different to touch in that it 
doesn’t update the timestamp, if you use it with a 
directory that already exists. Enter mkdir testdir again and you’ll get 
the error “mkdir: cannot create directory ‘testdir: File exists”. 
You create directories inside each other using the 
directory path. Enter mkdir Documents/photos 
to create a new directory called photos inside your documents 
directory. The directory has to already exist though so try to enter 
mkdir articles/reports and you’ll get an error because there 
is no articles directory.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Create and Remove 
Directories
150
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 151 ---
To create a directory path you need to pass in the p 
option to mkdir, which stands for “parents”. Options 
if you remember, come after the command and start with a ‘-’. So 
enter  mkdir -p articles/reports. Enter ls to view the 
articles directory and ls articles to view the reports directory 
sitting inside.
Now that you’re starting to get a bit more advanced 
we’re going to just reiterate something. In Unix 
the command structure is always: command, option and argument, 
in that order. The command is the function; next are the options, 
typically single letters starting with “-”; and finally the argument, 
often a file or directory structure. It’s always command, option, 
argument. Drill it into your head!
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Deleting directories is pretty easy in Unix and like files this is a problem. It’s too easy to delete entire directories containing 
files and these are instantly removed and not sent to a trash directory. Tread carefully.
GETTING RID OF DIRECTORIES
You’re going to remove one of the directories 
created earlier using the rmdir command. Enter 
ls to view the files and directories in the current directory. 
You’ll start by getting rid of one of the test directories. Enter 
rmdir testdir3 and ls again to confirm the directory has 
been removed.
Now you’ll try to get rid of the articles directory 
containing the reports directory. Enter rmdir 
articles and press return. You’ll get an error saying “rmdir: failed 
to remove ‘articles’: Directory not empty”. This is a puzzler, the 
rmdir command only removes directories that having nothing in 
them i.e. no files or other directories.
To delete a directory containing files or other 
directories you return to the rm command used to 
remove files. Only now you need to use the -R option, which stands 
for “recursive”. Using rm -R removes all the files and directories to 
whatever you point it at. Enter rm -R articles to remove the 
articles directory. 
As with multiple files, you can delete multiple 
directories inside the same directory using the rm 
command with the wildcard character “*”. This should be done with 
care though so use the -i option, which stands for “interactive”. 
This will prompt you before each deletion. Enter rm -Ri test* 
and press y and return to each prompt. It’s a good idea to use the -i 
option whenever using the rm command.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
151
www.bdmpublications.com
Create and Remove Directories
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 152 ---
On your desktop you move files by clicking and dragging them but in a command 
line interface you must be more precise. Here’s how to use the Move command to 
reposition files and directories, and rename items.
Knowing how to move files is an essential part of learning Unix. Once you know how to move files and directories around, you 
can start to organise your computer and put items where they are required.
USING THE MOVE COMMAND
Before you can move anything around you need 
to have a few test items in your home directory. 
Enter touch testfile and mkdir testdir to create a test file 
and test directory in your home directory. Enter ls to check both 
are present.
Enter mv testfile testdir and press return 
to move the test file document into the testdir 
directory. Enter ls to see that it’s no longer in the home directory 
and ls testdir to see the test file now sitting in the testdir 
directory. Now enter mkdir newparent to create a new directory.
Files and directories are moved using the “mv” 
command. This is different to commands we’ve looked 
at so far because it has two arguments; remember Linux command line 
is command, option, argument. The first argument is source, the file or 
directory to be moved, the second is the destination.
Directories with files are moved in the same way. 
Enter mkdir testdir2 to create a second 
directory. Now enter mv testdir testdir2 to move the testdir 
directory inside the testdir2 directory. Enter ls testdir2/
testdir to view the test file sitting inside the directory. Enter cd 
testdir2/testdir to move into the directory.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Copying, Moving and 
Renaming Files
152
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 153 ---
The mv command isn’t used just to move files. It also serves the purpose of renaming files, effectively moving a file from its 
old name to a new name. Let’s see how to use mv to rename items.
RENAMING FILES AND DIRECTORIES
Files and directories can be moved up using the 
double dot (“..”) as an argument. Enter ls -la to 
view your test file and the single and double dot files. The single dot 
is the current directory and the double dot is the parent directory. 
Enter mv testfile .. to move the test file up into the new parent 
directory. Enter cd .. to move up to the parent directory.
You can also mv files using longer paths. Enter 
cd ~ to return to the home directory and 
mv testdir2/testfile testdir2/testdir/testfile to 
move the testfile from its current location back inside the testdir 
directory. Enter ls testdir2/testdir to view the file back in its 
current directory. 
Enter mv testfile names and ls. Now you 
can see the new names file in your directory. The 
mv command can also be used to rename directories. You should 
still have your testdir2 directory in your home directory. Enter mv 
testdir2 people to rename the directory. Enter ls to view it.
Let’s start by making a new test file called names. 
Enter touch testfile and then ls to make sure 
the testfile is present. You’re going to turn this into a file that 
contains the names of some people. So let’s call it something more 
appropriate, like “names”.
It is easy to overwrite files using the mv command 
so if you have files with the same name use the -n 
option, which stands for “no overwrite”. Enter touch testfile 
to create a new file and mv -n testfile names. There’s no error 
report though, so enter ls and you’ll find both still around.
You can rename directories inside other directories 
using paths. Let’s rename the testdir directory, 
which is now inside the people directory. Enter mv people/
testdir people/friends to rename the testdir directory inside 
the people directory.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
153
www.bdmpublications.com
Copying, Moving and Renaming Files
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 154 ---
All Unix systems come with a powerful manual built into it, known as “man”. Man pages 
are complex at first, but you will quickly get the hang of them. Knowing how man works 
enables you to get information and advice on most Linux commands. 
You’ve learnt some pretty cool stuff about commands, options and arguments so now is a great time to start looking at the 
built in help tool known as man, short for manual. With man you can get information about the Unix commands.
WHAT’S UP, MAN?
Unix has a built in manual, known as man for short. 
With the man command you can get information 
on all the Unix commands we’ve talked about. Just enter man and 
the name of the command you want to learn more about. Start by 
entering man ls in the command line.
Most commands are pretty easy to figure out how 
to use, so what you spend most of the time in the 
man pages is looking under the Description. Here you will see all the 
options and the letters used to activate them. Most man pages are 
longer than a single page, so press any key (such as the space bar) to 
move to the next page of content.
The man pages are a bit more detailed than you 
might be used to. First you have a name, which tells 
you what the command is called, in this case “list directory contents” 
and then the Synopsis shows you how it works. In this case: ls 
[OPTION].. [FILE..]. So you enter ls followed by options (such as -la) 
and the file or directory to list.
Press the h key while looking at a man page to 
view the commands you can use to control the view. 
This is called the Summary of Less Commands; the less command 
is something we’ll come to when we look at editing text. For now 
realise that you can move back and forward with z and w. Press q to 
quit this help screen and return to the man page. 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using the Man Pages
154
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 155 ---
Scroll to the bottom of the man page to discover 
more information. Typically you will find the 
author’s name and information on reporting bugs including web 
links that can be useful for more information. Press q to exit the 
man page and return to the command line. 
The man command can be used for just about every 
command you use in Unix. You can even enter 
man man to get information on using the man tool. From now on, 
whenever you come across a new command in this book, such as 
nano or chmod take time to enter man nano or man chmod and 
read the instructions.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Man doesn’t change anything, like mv or mkdir, so it’s tempting not to see it as a command. It is though and like all other 
commands it has options and these can be very handy to learn.
USING MAN OPTIONS
Entering man man enables you to view some of 
the options but sometimes you’ll just want a quick 
overview. Fortunately man has a built-in help option that quickly 
lists the options. Press q if you’re in a man page and enter   man -h 
at the command line.
If you’re fast you may have noticed the start of the 
text flew up off the page. This is because the man 
-h option doesn’t use the less command by default; less is what 
enables you to move down text one screen at a time. We’ll look 
into pipes (“|”) later on but for now just use man -h | less to 
read long text one page at a time.
One of the most powerful man options is the -k 
option, which is for “apropos”. This enables you 
to search a wider range of man pages than the exact command. 
Enter man -k directory to view all of the man pages relating 
to directories; man -k directory | less to view one page at 
a time. Here you’ll find commands like ls, mkdir and cd along with 
their description.
Entering the man page for all the commands you 
come across can be a little long-winded, although 
ultimately productive. If you just want to know what a command 
does you can read just the description using the whatis command. 
Enter   whatis pwd to read the description of the pwd command 
(“print name of current/working directory”).
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
155
www.bdmpublications.com
Using the Man Pages
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 156 ---
Unlike a graphical interface, you need to ask Unix to list and display the files and 
directories in the command line interface. List is one the Unix commands that you will 
use the most, so it’s important to truly understand how to use List properly.
Files in Unix are all constructed with text as well as code. Often you’ll be asked to open a file and insert or adjust the text 
inside. As you get more advanced you’ll be creating and editing configuration files and your own programs.
TEXT EDITING
You are probably used to editing files in your Unix 
environment using a text program, such as Text 
Editor. Click on Dash and search for “Text Editor”. We’ve written 
out a Haiku poem and saved it using File > Save As. Enter the name 
Haiku, choose the Documents directory and then click Save.
Enter clear to remove any text from the screen 
and ls -l Documents to view the files in your 
Documents directory. You will see the Haiku file you created in text 
edit. Note the number to the right of your user name. If you entered 
the document with the same text as us, it should read 84. This is the 
exact amount of characters in our poem.
You’re going to back out of the desktop 
environment and into the command line. We just 
want you to see that the text documents created in Text Edit 
contain just text and show you the relationship between files in 
the desktop and command line. Open Terminal and return to the 
command line.
The cat command can be used to view the contents 
of a text file in Unix. Enter cat Documents/Haiku 
to view the text inside the Haiku file. Cat is short for concatenate 
and was designed to list the text from various files together. You 
can use several files as arguments for cat but most people just use it 
to list the contents of a single file.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Editing Text Files 
156
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 157 ---
Nano is such an old program that many of its conventions are odd. You might find saving and closing the app tricky at first but 
don’t worry; follow these steps to get the hang of it.
SAVING EDITED FILES
What if you want to edit a file? For that turn to a 
text editor that works from the command line. 
There are two main text editors available: Vim and Nano. We believe 
Nano is best to start with, so enter nano Documents/Haiku. The 
command line vanishes to reveal the GNU nano text editor.
Text is edited in Nano in much the same way as 
other word processors, although it is far more 
limited in scope. Use the arrow keys to move to the end of the text 
and press return to add a couple of lines. Now enter some more text 
and it will be added to the document.
By default the file name should be correct in the 
File Name To Write section and all you need to do 
is check it and press return. We found this strangely challenging at 
first and often reached for the y key to confirm the save. Once it 
has saved you quit Nano by pressing Control-X and not the usual 
Control-Q command.
You don’t save the text using the traditional 
Control-S function found in programs worldwide. 
Instead you WriteOut a file using a Control-O shortcut. Press 
Control-O and a bar appears at the bottom of the screen with File 
Name to Write and the document path.
You should be aware that you also use Nano to 
create empty text documents. Type nano Haiku 
in the home directory and you’ll create a blank document called 
Haiku instead of opening your document. If you ever try to open 
a document and get blank text, chances are you used the wrong 
directory path.
Enter cat Documents/Haiku to view the 
updated text. Enter ls -l Documents to view 
the updated Haiku file in the Documents directory. Check the 
file size and you’ll see it has increased by the same amount of 
letters, including returns at the end of lines, you entered into the 
Haiku document. Remember that one byte equals one letter in 
a document.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
157
www.bdmpublications.com
Editing Text Files
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 158 ---
Like all modern operating systems, Unix enables multiple users to use a computer and 
for each to have their own files and Home directory. This is handy on most computers 
but in Unix it’s a good idea to really learn how different user accounts work.
An important part of using Unix is the concept of users and understanding which user you are, and which group you belong to. 
Like all operating systems you can have multiple user accounts and each has different types of access.
WHAT IS A USER?
The first thing you need to do is get a concept 
of which user you are. Enter whoami into the 
command line and press return. It should say your account name; 
usually the name you entered during setup. The whoami command 
might seem a bit simplistic but it comes in very handy when you 
start using multiple accounts.
To do this you’ll need to use a command called 
sudo. It stands for “substitute user do” and if you 
don’t specify a user it uses the account above: the all-powerful root 
user. You’ll come across sudo a lot in Unix, so let’s create a second 
account to get the hang of it. Enter sudo useradd -m monty or 
pick your name. Enter your password.
There are times when you’ll be doing something 
in Unix and get an error with “Permission denied”; 
typically when you try to create, edit or execute (run) a file or 
directory outside of your area of privilege. If you want to see this, 
enter mkdir /testdir. Attempting to create a new directory in 
the root directory isn’t allowed.
Now add a password for the new account. Enter 
sudo passwd monty and enter a short password. 
Retype the same password and you’ll now have two accounts 
on your machine. Now enter ls -l /home to view the home 
directories for both users. Notice that the lucy directory lists lucy as 
the owner and group; and monty directory belongs to monty.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Getting to Know Users 
158
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 159 ---
Let’s try switching to our new account. Enter su 
monty and enter the password you just created 
for that account. Notice that the command line now says “monty@
[computername] but the working directory is still the same (your 
original accounts home directly, /home/lucy for us). Enter whoami 
to confirm you are now monty.
We’ll look at permissions in the next tutorial but 
for now try to create a file as before. Enter touch 
testfile to create a file. It will say “touch: cannot touch ‘testfile’: 
Permission denied”. This is because your new user account doesn’t 
have the right to create files in the /home/monty directory. Enter 
su and your original username (from step 1) to switch back, 
i.e. su lucy.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
We now have two accounts on the computer: lucy and monty, that can edit files in their own /Home directories. There’s also a 
third account called root that sits above both lucy and monty. It can edit files anywhere.
GETTING SUDO
The root account is all-powerful. It is possible but 
not recommended to switch to the root account, 
although you’ll need to give it a password first, using sudo passwd 
root. Then just type su to switch to root. Please don’t do this 
though. Knowledge is a good thing but it is safer and wiser to use 
sudo instead.
Most people think sudo stands for super user but 
it stands for substitute user do. It enables you 
to perform a command as another user. Enter sudo -u monty 
touch /home/monty/test to create a file inside Monty’s home 
directory. You won’t get an error because you substituted yourself 
for monty, who has permission to edit that directory.
It’s rare that you use sudo to substitute another 
user. If you don’t specify a user using the -u 
option with a user name it defaults to the root account (as if 
you’d typed sudo -u root). Enter   sudo touch /home/monty/
anothertestfile to create a file in the lucy directory while still using 
the monty account. 
This step is optional. Only your original user 
account can use sudo. If we want to give the 
monty account sudo privileges it needs to be added to the sudoers 
file. Enter sudo visudo to view the sudoers file. Add monty 
ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL to the last line and use Control-o to 
output the file. Remove the .tmp that is added to the file name as 
a security measure. Note that most accounts are not added to the 
sudoers file as a matter of course.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
159
www.bdmpublications.com
Getting to Know Users
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 160 ---
Who owns files and who’s allowed to change them is an important part of Unix. It’s also 
one of its more complex elements, especially when viewing and managing permissions 
from the command line
More importantly is the concept of users, who owns files and who has privilege rights. Like all modern computers there are 
multiple user accounts and each has different types of access. This is paramount to managing files.
OWNER AND PRIVILEGE
If you followed the previous tutorial you should now 
have two accounts on your computer. One called 
monty and the other with your name (lucy in our case). An essential 
aspect of Unix is the idea of file and directory ownership. Who 
owns and has access to what. We need a test file, so enter touch 
testfile.txt to create one.
The first letter in the permissions also indicates a 
directory or file. Notice that all the other files start 
with a ‘d’ and our textfile.txt file starts with a ‘-’. That’s what the first 
letter means. It’s either a ‘d’ in which case it’s a directory or a ‘-’ in 
which case it’s not a directory, it’s a file. Enter ls -l testfile.
txt to view the permissions for just this file.
Now enter ls -l and lets have a good look at the 
default permissions file. Our testfile.txt files starts 
with the text -rw-r--r--. Let’s start with the first letter, which is a dash 
‘-’. All the other items in our home directory are directories. You can 
tell because they are blue and our testfile.txt file is white. 
The next nine letters of the permissions are known 
as “alpha notation” because they let you know the 
permissions using letters. Each permission is either on, in which case 
you see a letter or it is off, in which case you see a dash. The letter 
doesn’t change for each place. So the first permission, the second 
letter after the directory one, is either an ‘r’ or a ‘-’. It’s never any 
other letter.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Ownership and 
Permissions
160
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 161 ---
Now that you know how groups of permissions work, it’s time to look at how to change them. Mastering this skill will help 
creating users, and giving them the correct access to resources, much easier.
CHANGING PERMISSIONS
The ‘r’ means that particular permission is read and 
it’s set to on. The nine letters here are divided into 
three groups of three letters: r, w and x. They stand for read, write 
and execute (run). Read means the file can be viewed, using cat or 
nano; w means the file can be edited or moved; and x means the file, 
typically a script or program, can be run. 
The presence of r, w, or x means that this aspect is 
possible, a dash means it isn’t. Our testfile.txt has 
no x letter, so if it were a script it wouldn’t run. So why are there 
so many letters? Why not just three? Read, Write and Execute? The 
three blocks of three letters are for different sets of people: user, 
group and other. 
The chmod command is one of the trickier ones 
to understand. There are two ways you can adjust 
permissions, the first is using chmod with an option to target one 
of the three groups: owner, group or other. For these you use u, 
g or o followed by = and the letters or dashes you want. So enter 
chmod ugo=rx testfile.txt to make all three groups read, 
write and execute.
The first block of three is the most important. This 
is the user who owns the file (typically your name); 
the second is for other people in the same group as the user; and 
the third is for other people on the system. Permissions are changed 
using the chmod (change file mode bit) command. Enter  man 
chmod to look at the manual.
Alpha notation is fine but many Unix experts use 
octal notation instead. This is a three digit number 
that represents permissions. This is the formula: read=4, write=2 
and execute=1 and you add them up for each group. So if a group 
is read, write and execute it’s 7; if it’s read and write it’s 6; or if 
it’s just execute it’s 1. A popular option is 755. Enter chmod 755 
testfile.txt to change the file using octal notation.
Turning everything on is probably overkill, 
so you need to target each group. Do this by 
putting commas between each mode option. Enter chmod 
u=rwx,g=rw,o=r testfile.txt to make gives users read, write 
and execute privileges, user read and write and other just read. 
Enter ls -l to see your handiwork.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
161
www.bdmpublications.com
Ownership and Permissions
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 162 ---
Now that you’ve learnt all the basics, it’s time to start putting the command line to 
work. In this tutorial we’ll cover some handy Unix commands that you can use on your 
computer. These commands enable you to investigate your computer and its hard drive.
Unix is a huge and versatile command line language and there are hundreds of commands you can learn and use. Here are 
some of them that will help you get more from your computer.
LOTS OF UNIX
Let’s start by getting some info. Enter cat /proc/
cpuinfo to view some info on your computer’s 
processors. If you have a modern machine, you’ll most likely see two 
to four processors, starting from number 0, along with the model 
name and other info.
Enter uname to view the name of the operating 
system’s kernel, the bit that sits between the 
interface and hardware. This is great but you’re more likely to want 
to know which version of Unix you are using. Enter cat /etc/*-
release file to view information on your Unix distribution.
Remember that cat is used to list the contents of a 
text file, which is what cpuinfo is. There are other 
text files with system info available. Try cat /proc/meminfo to 
get information about your memory, cat /proc/partitions for 
information about your SD Card and cat /proc/version shows 
which version of Unix you are using.
Enter uname -a to view some more detailed 
information. Here you’ll see the kernel name, 
hostname and kernel version (4.4.0-16-generic) on ours. If you have 
a multicore computer you’ll see SMP (symmetric multiprocessing), 
followed by the system date, CPU architecture and operating 
system (GNU/Unix). 
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Useful System and  
Disk Commands
162
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 163 ---
Enter cat /sys/class/thermal/thermal_
zone0/temp to view the current operating system 
temperature of your computer.  If you want clearer info, install 
lm-sensors (sudo apt-get install lmsensors). Enter sudo sensors-
detect to setup lm-sensors and answer yes and no to the 
questions. Enter sensors to run it.
One command you might be wondering about is 
how to switch off or restart your computer from 
the command line. Don’t just hit the power switch. Enter sudo 
showdown -h now to shut down computer. The -h option stands 
for halt. Alternatively enter sudo shutdown -r now or sudo 
reboot to restart your computer.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Learn the two commands that enable you to view your disk space and the files on it: df (disk free space) and du (disk usage). 
With these two commands you can view the file usage on your hard drive.
DISK COMMANDS
Start by entering df in the command line. It returns 
a list of the volumes contained on your computer. 
You might be wondering what a volume is. It’s best to imagine your 
hard drive containing partitions. This is where you split one drive 
to act like two or more drives. Each partition can contain volumes; 
these are storage spaces. 
Enter df -h to get the list in human readable 
form. The first two lines should read “rootfs” and 
“/dev/root” and have matching Size, Used, Avail and Use% listings. 
This is the main drive and is an indication of how much space you 
have used, and have free. The other volumes are for booting and 
initialising devices; you can ignore these for now.
Now enter du. You should see lots of text fly up the 
screen. This is the disk usage for the files contained 
in your home directory and their sub-directories. As with df, it is 
better to use du with the -h option to humanize the output. If you 
want to slow down the output, you’ll also need to pipe it through 
less. Enter  du -h | less to view the files and their respective 
usage one page at a time.
You don’t typically enter du on its own; most of the 
time you want to view the disk usage of a specific 
directory. Enter du -h Documents/ to view how much space the 
Documents directory takes up. Ours is just “8.0K”. If you want a 
more comprehensive breakdown of the files contained, use the -a 
option (all). Enter du -ha to view all the files contained and their 
disk usage.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
163
www.bdmpublications.com
Useful System and Disk Commands
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 164 ---
Programs and processes are complex creatures in Unix. Most operating systems hide 
processes from users and just display programs (running or not). In Unix you really need 
to learn how to inspect and stop processes. This is an essential skill.
If you’ve come from a desktop computing environment, you’ll be used to the idea of a program that you open and quit using 
the interface. This program is managed by the operating system and controls the program; but what on earth is a process?  
PROGRAMS AND PROCESSES
As you get into Unix you’ll start to hear more about 
processes and the kernel. The kernel sits beneath 
the software and hardware. It passes instructions to the hardware 
running processes, which takes up memory and when the process is 
finished it closes it and reclaims the memory.
If you type in ps on its own you don’t see much. You 
should see two items, bash and ps. Bash (Bourne 
Again Shell) is the command line environment you are typing in and 
ps is the command you just entered. If that seems a little light, that’s 
because it is. These are just the processes owned by the user and 
running in the foreground.
You’re probably used to thinking in terms of 
programs and most OS’s tend to keep processes 
out of sight. In Unix on the other hand, you’re right in at the deep 
end. You don’t open and quit programs as much as manage your 
processes. This is done using the ps (process status) command.
If you want to see processes used by other users, 
including those started by root, enter ps -a. This 
option stands for all users but still isn’t everything because it doesn’t 
include background processes. For this you can enter either ps -A 
or ps -e. This will show you every process on the system including 
the background processes. You may need to pipe it through less 
using ps -e | less.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Managing Programs 
and Processes
164
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 165 ---
Now that you have a handle on processes, you need to know what to do with them. You can quit any available process running 
in real-time and also ones that you no longer need, or those that are problematic. 
VIEWING AND QUITTING PROCESSES
The ps command is one of the oldest known and has 
a lot of legacy; because of this it also has alternative 
options that can be used without the dash at the start. The most 
common way to use ps is to enter ps aux. Piping this command 
through less is the best way to go about using ps. Enter ps aux | 
less to view your processes.
The ps aux command displays the processes in 
columns. The first is the User followed by the 
Process ID (PID). Then we see the percentage of CPU and memory.
Top fills the display with processes fitting as many 
as it can on one screen. These run in real time so 
as you watch, the display items will move up and down according 
to their usage. You can interact with top as it is running: us < and > 
to change the sort column. Press h to view a help page with all the 
commands you can use. 
While ps is a great tool for checking all the processes 
on your computer, sometimes you need to view 
them in real-time. In particular you may want to check the CPU and 
memory usage of processes and see if any process is hogging all 
your computer’s resources. Use top to do this. 
Processes are stopped using the kill command. 
Enter sleep 100 & to create a dummy process. 
Enter pgrep sleep to find its PID number; on ours it is 3886. Now 
enter kill 3886 and the sleep process will be stopped. You can 
also use pkill sleep if you’re sure you know the process name. 
Now that you’ve got an idea of what processes 
are, how do you go about stopping them. Some 
processes run in the foreground until you quit them. Enter ping 
www.google.com and you’ll start a ping process continuously 
contacting Google. This sort of process runs until you press 
Control-C. 
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
165
www.bdmpublications.com
Managing Programs and Processes
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 166 ---
Now you’re really becoming a Unix ninja. You’ve learnt how to enter complex commands 
in Unix, so let’s discover something a bit more in-depth. In this tutorial we’ll look at how to 
input and output commands to one another and string commands together using pipes.
Everything on a computer is about input and output. You input to the computer by pressing keys and moving the mouse; it 
makes calculations and outputs by changing the display, making a noise and so on.
INPUT AND OUTPUT
When you enter commands into the Unix command 
line you are using standard input and output. This 
is so obvious that most people don’t even think about it. You enter 
commands using the keyboard, that’s input and it responds on the 
screen, that’s output. This is the regular way of doing it, which is 
why it’s “standard input and output” (often called stdin and stdout 
for short).
You can change the standard output to something 
else using the “>” character after your command. 
If we wanted to see all the items in the Documents directory 
we use ls -l Documents/. Using ls -l Documents/ > 
documents.txt outputs the list of items to a new text file called 
“documents.txt”.
As far as the computer is concerned, input and 
output can be to and from a whole range of 
different sources that you might never even think about. A program 
can get input from other programs, from files stored on the hard 
drive and a whole host of other areas. It outputs back to the display 
line and also to files, other programs and even other commands.
The documents.txt file now contains the output 
from the ls command. You can check it using 
nano documents.txt. It’s an editable text file containing all the 
permissions, user and file size information and the names of the 
files. The output from the ls -l command, normally displayed on the 
screen, was sent instead to this file. Press Control-x to quit nano.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Input, Output and Pipes 
166
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 167 ---
So “>” enables you to output to files but you can 
also get input from a file. Enter cd Music/ to enter 
your Music directory. Enter nano bands.txt to create a new text 
file. Enter some band names and press Control-o to output the file. 
Press Control-x to quit Nano. 
You’re going to use this text file as input to the sort 
command. Enter sort < bands.txt and the 
content from the text file is used as input to sort. The output isn’t 
specified so it uses the standard output, the screen but you use 
input and output together. Enter sort < bands.txt > bands_
sorted.txt to create a new file with the band names in order.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
As well as directing input and output to and from files, you can send the output from one command directly into another 
command. This is known as piping and uses the pipe character “|”.
USING PIPES
As you start to get more advanced in Unix you 
begin to create more powerful commands and one 
way you do this is by using the pipe character (“|”). Take some time 
to find this character if you haven’t already; it usually sits above or 
to the left of the Return key on most keyboards. 
We’ve used the pipe a few times in this book (ps 
aux | less) but you might not have understood 
what’s actually happening. Enter cat bands.txt | wc. The 
output from the cat command, the text inside the document, 
isn’t displayed on the screen; instead it is piped into the wc (word 
count) function. This then tells us how many lines, words and 
characters are in the document.
You can pipe commands multiple times. Enter 
cat bands.txt | sort | grep The* to get 
the bands starting with “The” in alphabetical order. The output 
of the text from the bands.txt document is passed into sort and 
the output from sort is passed into grep that filters out the bands 
starting with “The”. These bands form the output.
You can combine pipes with input and output to 
create complex expressions. You can also use >> 
to append outputted data to a file that already exists. Enter cat 
bands.txt | wc >> bands.txt. This takes the output from 
the bands.txt file and pipes it into the wc (word count) function. 
The output from wc is appended to the end of the bands.txt file. 
Enter cat bands.txt to view it.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
167
www.bdmpublications.com
Input, Output and Pipes
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 168 ---
Searching for pattern matches in text can be really useful, which is where “grep” comes in. 
Grep is like the find command in a word processor, but on steroids (lots of steroids). It’s an 
incredibly powerful search and replace tool that enables you to find just about anything.
Grep is one of the most powerful commands you can learn in Unix. We mentioned it briefly in the last tutorial but now it’s time to 
take a look at it properly. Standing for Global Regular Expression Print it enables you to search text and match complex patterns.
WHAT THE GREP?
Grep is a powerful Unix tool that enables you 
to search through text and find a match. This is 
tremendously useful as it enables you to look for files on your 
system and search through the text in files. We are starting in the 
Music/ directory from the previous tutorial with two text files.
You can also use grep to match the text in files. You 
can do this using cat and a pipe: cat bands.txt | 
grep The. You don’t need to use pipe cat to grep, you can instead 
pass in the file as an argument after your search term. Enter grep 
The bands.txt to achieve the same result.
Think of Grep as a filter between your input and 
output. Grep takes the input from something and 
provides a filter. We can see this in action with the echo command. 
First enter echo XenialXerus and press return. The output 
is the string “XenialXerus”. Let’s pipe this through grep: echo 
XenialXerus | grep Xerus. The string “XenialXerus” is still 
returned but the “Xerus” part is highlighted in red.
Grep doesn’t match whole words. By default it finds 
the text you entered in the input. Enter echo Them 
>> bands.txt to add the band Them to our text file. Now enter 
grep The bands.txt and you’ll get bands like The Kinks along 
with Them. The -w option matches whole words. Enter grep -w 
The bands.txt to just find bands starting with “The”.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using Grep 
Pattern Matching
168
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 169 ---
Grep is a powerful tool for searching for text, and many Unix users combine it with other commands to find files. There is a 
better way though, using the built-in Find command. Let’s start finding files in Unix. 
FINDING FILES
If you’re unsure of the location of your text file, you 
can use grep to search continuously for files with 
matching text using the R option. Enter grep -R “The Smiths” 
/home/lucy/ (replacing “lucy” with your username) to search for 
files containing the text “The Smiths”. We’re using quote marks 
around The Smiths to search for both words together rather than all 
files containing either Smiths or The.
There’s a lot more to grep pattern matching than we 
could possible mention here in fact we could write a 
whole book on it. There are lots of characters you can use, along with 
the asterisk wildcard (“*”). The dot (“.”) matches any single character 
and “?” can be used to find characters that may or may not appear. 
There’s a whole lot more too. Enter man grep to read the manual. 
Ryans Tutorials has a good outline if you’re interested in learning 
more (ryanstutorials.net/Unixtutorial/grep.php).
Notice that find didn’t just return results from your 
home directory but all the directories below. Unlike 
other Unix commands, find uses recursion by default. You can list 
all the files in your home directory using find . -print from the 
home directory lists every file in your home. Enter find / -print 
to list every file on your computer; this could take some time – press 
Ctrl-c to quit.
You might be tempted to use grep with a pipe and 
ls to find files and directories. This is possible but 
a better way to locate filenames to use the find command. The 
format is find, followed by the directory (use a dot (.) for the current 
directory) then -name and the filename, followed by -print. Navigate 
to the home folder (cd ~) and enter find . -name “*.txt” 
-print. This lists all the text files in your home directory.
There are lots of other commands with find. So 
be sure to use man find to do some research. 
One option worth looking up is -mtime, which enables you to find 
files by the modification time. Enter find . -mtime -2 to find 
files modified two days ago, or find . -mtime 0 to find files 
modified today.
You can also find files by type using the -type option 
and a letter; common ones are “d” for directory 
and “f” for file. This enables you to search through your whole 
system for directories. Enter sudo find / -name bin -type d 
-print to find all the bin (binary) folders on your system; you need 
sudo to search recursively through the root directory.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
169
www.bdmpublications.com
Using Grep Pattern Matching
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 170 ---
Learning how to use Tab Completion and History will make you a much faster and better 
Unix user. These tips will enable you to skip the typing and get Unix to enter commands 
and filenames for you.
As you use Unix more often, you’ll increasingly find yourself working in the command line. These vital tips make the command 
line easier and more enjoyable, which in turn makes you a better Unix user.
LOVING UNIX
By far the most useful command line trick to learn 
properly is Tab Completion. Pressing the Tab button 
in the command line completes commands and file names. Enter ec 
in the command line and press Tab to expand it to “echo”.
Tab completion is especially useful when typing 
long file names, directories and paths. Rather than 
typing the whole name you can enter the first few letters and 
press Tab. We’ve used touch to create a file called “really_long_
filename-12345” in our Documents directory. Enter rm rea and 
press Tab to complete the file. Press Enter to remove it.
Sometimes there will be more than one option for 
tab completion. Enter apt and press Tab. Notice 
that nothing happens. Press Tab a second time and you’ll see a list 
of commands that begin with “apt”. Add -g to your command and 
press Tab again to get apt-get on the command line.
Tab can also be used to locate options and 
arguments in commands. Enter sudo apt-get 
and i then press Tab to expand the “i” to “install”. Now enter ch 
and press Tab twice. Press y to list all possibilities and fill out “ch” to 
“chromium-browser”. Press Enter if you want to install Chrome on 
your Unix machine.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Tab Completion  
and History
170
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 171 ---
Another tip to speed up Unix is to use the arrow 
keys to locate previous commands. Enter clear 
to clear the screen. Press Up to view clear again. Press up again to 
view the “sudo apt-get” command and so on. Press Enter to run the 
command again. 
Enter history to view all the commands you’ve 
entered in Unix command line. Enter ! followed 
by the number of a command to run it. You can also enter !!  to 
run the previous command again. Enter ls and !! to run list twice. 
You can also combine this with sudo. Enter sudo !! to run the list 
command with root access.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
One file you really need to get to know is .bashrc. This hidden file in your home folder contains the configuration files for bash, 
the terminal environment you are using. Editing .bashrc customises your command line.
CONFIGURING .BASHRC
You can find the .bashrc file using ls -lah and 
edit it using nano. Like the config.txt file it’s best to 
start by making a backup. Enter cp .bashrc .bashrc_backup 
then nano .bashrc  you don’t need sudo as it’s in your home 
folder. Like the config.txt file you’ll see a lot of options that are 
commented out with the hash symbol.
Scroll down to find the section marked “# some 
more aliases”. Here you’ll find shortcuts for 
common commands “ll” for “ls -lah”. Enter alias c=’clear’ 
below and use Ctrl-x to exit Nano and save the file.
Back in Terminal enter c and it will say “c: command 
not found”. The alias won’t work until you restart 
the Bash shell. You can close Terminal and reopen it or just enter 
source ~/.bashrc to restart the Bash shell. Now enter c at the 
command line and you’ll clear the screen.
There’s a huge amount of fun you can have editing 
the .bashrc file and you can enter any number of 
aliases. Take a look at cyberciti.biz/tips/bash-aliases-mac-centos-
Unix-unix.html to view some popular aliases and serverfault.com/
questions/3743/what-useful-things-can-one-add-to-ones-bashrc to 
find a list of popular tricks people have found for .bashrc.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
171
www.bdmpublications.com
Tab Completion and History
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 172 ---
Creating a Bash Shell script in Linux is a great way of executing your Python code. Bash 
scripts can be used to automate tasks, run programs and even ask for user input. Here’s 
how to make them work for you and your Python code. 
A Bash script is simply a series of commands that Linux will run through to complete a certain task. They can be simple, or 
remarkably complex, and they can call Python programs too.   
GET SCRIPTING
You’ll be working within the Terminal and with a 
text editor throughout the coming pages. There 
are alternatives text editors you can work with, which we’ll look at 
in a moment. It depends on the version of Linux you’re using but 
for the sake of ease, we’ll be doing our examples in Leafpad on a 
Raspberry Pi. 
Let’s start with a simple script to output something 
to the Terminal. Enter: leafpad helloworld.
sh. This will launch Leafpad and create a file called helloworld.sh. 
In Leafpad, enter the following: #!/bin/bash, then on a new line: 
echo Hello World!.  
There are several text editors you can use to create 
a Bash script: Xed, Vi, Nano, Vim, GNU Emacs and 
so on. In the end it all comes down to personal preference and the 
version of Linux you’re using. Our use of Leafpad is purely due to 
being the default text editor for the Raspberry Pi.   
The #!/bin/bash line tells the system what Shell 
you’re going to be using, in this case Bash. The hash, 
#, denotes a comment line, one that is ignored by the system and 
the exclamation mark, !, means that the comment is bypassed and 
will force the script to execute the line as a command. This is also 
known as a Hash-Bang.  
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using Python Code 
in Linux Scripts
172
Getting to Know the Command Line
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 173 ---
You can save this file, clicking File > Save and exit 
back to the Terminal. Entering ls, will reveal the 
script in the folder. To make any script executable, and able to 
run, you need to modify its permissions. Do this with: chmod +x 
helloworld.sh. You need to do this with every script you create. 
It’s not terribly exciting but the words ‘Hello World!’ 
should now be displayed in the Terminal. Now let’s 
see about getting one of our Python programs to work. Create a 
new Bash script called NumberGuess.sh and start it off in Leafpad 
with: #!/bin/bash
When you enter ls again, you can see that the 
helloworld.sh script has now turned from being 
white to green, meaning that it’s now an executable file. To run 
the script, in other words make it do the things you’ve typed into it, 
enter: ./helloworld.sh.
You’re going to be using the Number Guessing 
game script from the earlier Code Repository 
section. Begin by clearing the screen and entering a few echo 
commands to let the user know what’s going on:
clear 
echo Welcome to the Number Guessing game 
echo See if you can beat the computer
Finally, you need to execute the Python program. 
Do this with:
python3 NumberGuess.py
This will execute the Python code you created; remember to make 
sure the Bash script is in the same directory as the Python program. 
Make script executable (chmod +x NumberGuess.sh) and run it with: 
./NumberGuess. The script will run through the lines of code, then 
execute the Python program.
You can now use the Sleep command to pause the 
introduction screen for ten seconds:
sleep 10s
If you like you can add another clear after the sleep command, so 
the screen will be empty ready for the Python script to be executed.
sleep 10s 
clear
  STEP 5
  STEP 7
  STEP 6
  STEP 8
  STEP 10
  STEP 9
173
www.bdmpublications.com
Using Python Code in Linux Scripts
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 174 ---
Robots, Drones and 
Cool Python Projects
174
Index
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 175 ---
Python is not only an interesting 
and easy language to learn, it’s also 
remarkably powerful and can interact 
with many different hardware projects. 
Thanks to the likes of the Raspberry 
Pi and other electronic project boards 
and computers, Python can help you 
build the software and controls around 
sensors, servos, robotics and even an 
arcade machine. 
There are some cool projects for 
you to consider in this concluding 
section, utilising the versatility of the 
Raspberry Pi. From here, it’s up to you 
how far you take your Python skills. 
Do you aim for the stars and send your 
code to the International Space Station 
or use it to create the next generation 
of computer games or robotics?
176	
Using GitHub 
178	
Build a CamJam EduKit Robot
180	
Controlling Your Robot 
182	
Add Sensors to the Robot 
184	
Amazing Robotics Projects to Try
186	
Arcade Machine Projects 
188	
Security Projects 
190	
Becoming a Coder
192	
Glossary of Terms
175
www.bdmpublications.com
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 176 ---
As you start to create advanced projects in Python, you’ll need more advanced code. 
You could type it in by hand and often you’ll find code on developer’s websites but 
increasingly it’s being housed on GitHub.
Git is an online versioning and collaboration portal that enables you to store code online, download code, make changes and 
then integrate those changes. Github (github.com) is a website that developers use to host links to the code.
GETTING TO KNOW GIT
Git enables you to clone code created by other 
developers on your laptop or Raspberry Pi. So 
it’s a vital tool to have on all your systems. You install Git in Linux 
using APT. First enter sudo apt-get upgrade to get the latest 
package lists and sudo apt-get install git to install the latest version 
of Git. Follow the instructions at github.com for macOS and 
Windows systems.
Open a web browser and enter github.com. Click 
Sign Up and create an account. Now open a terminal 
window and enter git config --global user.name “John 
Doe” (replacing John Doe with your name). Next enter git config 
--global user.email john.doe@mail.com replacing the 
email address with the same one you used to sign up to Github.
Enter git --version to make sure it’s installed 
correctly. You should have the latest version 
installed (ours is 1.7.10.4). You can enter git -h to get quick help 
or   man git to read the manual but Git is pretty complex at first so 
it’s better to follow our guide. You’re going to use the desktop to 
take a look at Github next so enter startx.
Now we’re going to clone a project from Github to 
our computer. In the web browser enter github.
com/lucyhattersley/fizzbuzz. This is a repository I’ve created 
on Git that contains a program called FizzBuzz. A repository is like 
an online folder that contains the code. You will see links to the files 
contained in the project: README.md and fizzbuzz.py but don’t 
click on these.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Using GitHub 
176
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 177 ---
In the bottom right of the Github window you will 
see a text box marked HTTPS clone URL and inside it 
there is a URL. Click the text and press Control-A to select it all. Now 
right-click and choose Copy. Now open a terminal window and enter  
git clone and choose Edit > Paste to paste the HTTP address 
after the command. 
Enter ls and you will see the Fizzbuzz directory in 
your home directory. Enter cd fizzbuzz to switch 
that directory and ls again to view the fizzbuzz.py and README.
md files. FizzBuzz is a classic program that counts to 100 but on 
numbers devisable by 5 or 3 it prints “Fizz” or “Buzz” instead (or 
FizzBuzz if it’s devisable by both 5 and 3). Enter python fizzbuzz.
py to run the code.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
Now that you know how to get clone code from Github to your Raspberry Pi, you might be wondering how to put your own 
code into Git. Git is a powerful and fairly complex piece of software but this will help you get started. 
ADDING CODE TO GIT
You’re going to create a Python program that 
reverses a string and upload it to Git. Enter mkdir 
reverse_string and cd reverse_string. Then nano reverse_string.py 
and enter this code:
import sys	
 
string = sys.argv[1]	  
print string[::-1]	
Press Control-O and then Enter to save the code. Press 
Control-X to exit.
You can test the program by entering python 
reverse_string “Hello World” You should 
see dlorW olleH returned on the command line. You’re going 
to put this program on your Github but first it needs to be a Git 
folder, enter git init. This initialises the directory as a git repository. 
It creates a hidden file called .git to the folder. You can see this 
using ls -lah.
First we need 
a repository. 
Open Github (github.com) and 
click the green New Repository 
button. Enter reverse string 
in the Repository name field 
and select the Initialise this 
repository with a README 
option. Click Create repository 
to make the file. Next you need 
to copy the text from the HTTP’s 
clone URL field as you did when 
cloning a website. Return to the 
command line and enter git 
remote add and use Edit > 
Paste to paste in the URL.
You’ve now linked the local directory to the Git 
repository and can sync changes from one place 
to another. Enter git add reverse_string.py to track the 
python file. Now enter git commit -m “First commit” to tell 
Git you want to send “commit” the file to your Git space. Finally 
enter git push and enter your username and password to send 
the files. You’ll now see them on github.com. This is only a really 
rough introduction to Git. Head over to codeschool.com/courses/
try-git to find an online course.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
177
www.bdmpublications.com
Using GitHub
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 178 ---
The CamJam EduKit 3 is a fantastic robot kit that enables you to build a fully functioning 
robot with ultrasonic and line following sensors for just £17. All you need is a chassis and 
we’ll show you how to turn an old tin box into an amazing robot.
The Cambridge Raspberry Jam (camjam.me) teaches children of all ages how to build electronics projects and the kits are sold to 
everyone via the Pi Hut. The CamJam EduKit #3 has everything you need to build a robot (thepihut.com/collections/camjam-edukit).
CAMJAM
The CamJam EduKit 3 includes wheels, motors, a 
battery box, an EduKit Controller Board and two 
sensors. You also get a breadboard, wires and resistors to bring 
it all together, along with some double-
sided tape. We suggest you get a USB 
battery charger, the type used 
to recharge phones and a 
Wi-Fi dongle.
Flip the box upside down and make a hole in it in the 
middle, at one end. We’re using a metal drill to drill a 
hole through the tin box but if your box is made from plastic or card 
you could cut a hole using scissors. It doesn’t need to be large, just 
big enough to fit the wires from the servo motors.
You’ll need a chassis for your robot. We’re using a tin 
box, the type you often get to keep knick-knacks in. 
You can use any flat surface as a chassis, so long as you can 
mount the wheels but using a container makes 
it easier to hold all the bits inside. 
You could also use a plastic 
Tupperware box or 
even the box 
that the 
kit comes in.
Attach the two plastic wheels to the yellow servo 
motors making sure they’re on opposite sides. Now 
fix the servos to the underside of the box, making sure they’re near 
the hole you created. You can use the double-sided tape to mount 
the wheels but it’s a good idea to use Blu-Tack first to make sure the 
design works.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Build a CamJam 
EduKit Robot
178
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 179 ---
Place four AA batteries inside the battery box and 
make sure it is set to Off. Use a small screwdriver to 
loosen the two central screws in the EduKit Controller Board. Place 
the black wire from the battery box in the GND and the red wire 
in VIN (Voltage). Take a look at Worksheet 1 (camjam.me/?page_
id=1035#worksheets) for more info.
Place the robot front away from you and attach 
the red and black wires from the right wheel to the 
block marked Motor A. It doesn’t matter which way round. Take the 
wires from the left wheel and attach them to Motor B with the wires 
the opposite way round from Motor A (see picture).
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
The Raspberry Pi will need to operate on the move, so it needs power and a wireless network connection. You’ll also want to 
access it remotely, so you’ll want to set up VCN. Let’s build the brains.
SETTING UP THE RASPBERRY PI
Install a fresh build of Raspbian Jessie on an SD 
Card. Use sudo apt-get update and sudo 
apt-get upgrade to get the latest builds for all your software. 
Now use sudo apt-get install tightvncserver to install 
VNC software. Enter sudo nano .bashrc and add vncserver 
to the end of your bash file so it starts at boot time.
Connect a Wi-Fi dongle to your Raspberry Pi and 
click on the Wi-Fi icon in the top right of the Xcfc 
desktop interface; enter startx if you’re not in the desktop 
environment. Choose your network and enter the Wi-Fi password. 
Open the terminal and enter ifconfig. Make a note of your 
network address.
Charge up a portable USB charger, the type 
normally use for mobile phones and make sure 
it’s got plenty of juice. Shut down your Raspberry Pi and plug 
in the portable charger and make sure it can boot and run your 
Raspberry Pi.
Check that the VNC connection is working from 
another computer. On a Mac press Control-K and 
enter the vnc://192.168.0.[x]:5901 (with x the number from ifconfig 
in Step 2). Click Connect and you should see the Xfce desktop. Your 
Raspberry Pi is now ready to work remotely inside the robot.
  STEP 1
  STEP 2
  STEP 3
  STEP 4
179
www.bdmpublications.com
Build a CamJam EduKit Robot
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 180 ---
With all the motor parts in place, it’s now time to hook everything up and start testing 
out your robot. Once the motor control unit is attached to the Raspberry Pi and it is all 
powered up, you’re ready to start testing its movement in code.
Our robot still has a way to go to be complete but with the servos and wheels attached to the motor control unit and the 
power in place, it’s ready to start rolling around.
READY TO ROLL
You should have all six wires attached to the EduKit 
Controller Board unit. Double check that the black 
wire from the battery is going to GND and the red wire to VIN and 
that the black and red wires to Motor A and Motor B are the mirror 
opposite way around (as shown in this photo). Gently push the 
motor control unit into the GPIO pins on the left side.
Open the CamJam website (camjam.me/?page_
id=1035#worksheets) and download Worksheet 2 - 
Running the motors. Open a text editor on your computer and type 
out the code for the 2-motors.py program. You can cut and paste it 
to your text editor but we think it makes more sense to type it line 
by line so you understand what it’s doing.
Now it’s time to power up your robot and see if it 
moves. Attach the battery pack to the Raspberry Pi 
and switch on the battery box. Give the Raspberry Pi thirty seconds 
to go through the boot process and connect to it from a computer 
using VNC to make sure it is responding.
Open a FTP program such as FileZilla and choose 
File > Site Manager. Enter the IP address in the 
Host field, “pi” in the User field and your password (“raspberry” by 
default). Right-click on pi under Remote Site and choose Create 
Directory, name it “EduKitRobotics”. Now transfer the 2-motors.py 
file to the EduKit directory on your robot.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Controlling Your Robot 
180
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 181 ---
Now that our robot is up and moving, it’s time to give it better control functionality. This code enables you to move the robot 
forward, backwards and rotate left and right. It also makes it easy to give the robot multiple directions in order.
DRIVING CODE
Open the VNC program and connect to your 
Raspberry Pi. You should see the Xfce desktop even 
if you set up the robot to book into the command line. Enter cd 
EduKitRobotics. Make sure your robot is on the floor and has about 
a meter of space in front of it. Now enter python3 2-motors.py 
and press Return
All being well your robot should move forwards. If 
it moves backwards you need to swap the position 
of the red and black wires on both Motor A and Motor B.  If it fails 
to move then check the wires to the motor control unit, check that 
everything is switched on and try replacing the batteries. You need 
good quality 
batteries with 
enough power to 
move the servos.
The worksheet advises using nano to create code 
directly on your Raspberry Pi robot but we think 
it makes more sense to type it out on your computer and transfer 
it using FTP. Use VNC to connect to your Raspberry Pi and run the 
program using python3 3-driving.py. The robot should move 
forwards then backwards.
Head back to the CamJam website (camjam.
me/?page_id=1035#worksheets) and download 
Worksheet 3 - Driving and Turning. Type in the first block of code 
and save it as 3-driving.py in the EduKitRobotics folder. Make sure 
you enter the code from the section Moving the Robot at the end of 
your main block of code.
Add the 
movement 
instructions to the very end 
of the code and save the 
3-driving.py program to your 
EduKitRobotics folder, using 
FTP to transfer it. Use VNC to 
run python3 3-driving.py 
on the Raspberry Pi. The robot 
should move forwards, rotate 
left, move forwards again, 
rotate right, move backwards 
and then stop.
Take a good 
look at the 
Python code to see how it 
creates function definitions for 
Forwards(), Backwards() and 
StopMotors(). These definitions 
enable you to move the robot 
using functions, rather than 
typing out the code each time. 
Now add the Left() and Right() 
functions from the worksheet 
to the code.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
181
www.bdmpublications.com
Controlling Your Robot
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 182 ---
Now that your robot is built and moving around, it’s time to give it some smarts. The 
two sensors can be used by the robot to react to its surroundings; either following a line 
or avoiding obstacles.
Your robot has two sensors, an Ultrasonic and a Line Detector. The Ultrasonic is the one that looks like eyes and fits into the 
breadboard. The Line Detector has a small blue camera on one side and fits underneath the robot. 
ULTRASONIC AND LINE SENSING
Open the CamJam website (camjam.me/?page_
id=1035#worksheets) and download Worksheet 4 
and Worksheet 5. Worksheet 4 is just for the Line Detector, while 
worksheet 5 is for both sensors. Make sure you take a good look at 
the Building the Circuit diagram in Worksheet 5 and keep it with you 
during this tutorial.
Use a regular male-male jumper cable and place it 
next to the jumper in the breadboard in the same 
column, fifth row. Connect the other end to the GND of the EduKit 
Controller Board. Now take another female-male jumper wire and 
connect it from the VCC pin on the Line Detector to the 3V3 (3.3 
volts) pin on the EduKit Controller Board.
Make sure that the robot isn’t currently powered. 
If it is use VNC and shutdown the Raspberry Pi and 
disconnect the power to the Raspberry Pi. Locate one of the female-
male jumper wires and connect the female end to the GND pin on 
the Line Detector. Connect the other end to the breadboard in the 
eighth column, fourth row (as shown here).
Next take a third female-male jumper cable and 
connect it to the OUT pin of the Line Detector. 
Connect the other 
end to pin 25 on the 
EduKit Controller 
Board. This pin is used 
as the input pin to get 
a reading from the 
Line Detector. Note 
that the colours of 
your wires may not 
match the ones in the 
Worksheet diagram 
and it doesn’t matter 
which colour you use.
  STEP 1
  STEP 3
  STEP 2
  STEP 4
Add Sensors to the Robot 
182
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 183 ---
You’ve started putting together the circuit but now need to use the resistors and remaining cables. The resistor is used with 
Echo because the sensor needs a +5v but the Raspberry Pi input only likes 3.3v. Be sure to check the resistors carefully.
BUILDING THE CIRCUIT
Now it’s time for the Ultrasonic Sensor. Take it 
out of its packaging and slot it gently into the 
breadboard. Make sure the GND pin is in a hole in the same column 
as the GND pins from Step 2 (as shown in this photo). The Echo, Trig 
and VCC pins should be in the breadboard holes to the right.
Take a good look at the resistors in the tutorial. 
You need a 33OΩ resistor. This should be orange-
orange-brown-gold or Orange, Orange, Black, Black, Brown. Bend 
both pins to form a U-shape and insert one end in same column 
as the Echo pin on the sensor. The other end goes into an unused 
column on the left.
Next take a jumper cable and place one end in the 
same column as the two resistors. Place the other 
end in Pin 18 of the EduKit Controller Board. Use a second jumper 
to connect the VCC connection to the EduKit Controller Board’s 5v 
socket. A third jumper connects the Trig column to Pin 17.
Now you’re going to use a 47OΩ resistor, which 
should be yellow-purple-brown or Yellow, Violet, 
Black, Black, Brown. One end goes in the same column as the GND 
pin on the sensor, the other into the same column next to 33OΩ 
resistor from Step 6.
Now create the 5-distance.py code and place it 
in your EduKitRobotics directory. Use python3 
5-distance.py to run the code and you will see distances appear on 
the screen. Place your hand in front of the sensor and watch how it 
adjusts accordingly. Now use the movement code with the sensor 
code to make your robot smart. Happy robotics.
With everything wired up, take the double-sided 
tape off the bottom of the breadboard and attach it 
to the top of your robot, with the sensor facing outwards. Use some 
of the double-sided tape that’s spare and connect the Line Detector 
to the bottom of your robot making sure the lens faces down.
  STEP 5
  STEP 6
  STEP 2
  STEP 1
  STEP 4
  STEP 3
183
www.bdmpublications.com
Add Sensors to the Robot
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 184 ---
Building a robotics project is one of the most rewarding things you can do with Python 
and few things are cooler than a proper working robot. Here are some of the best 
robotics projects you can find.
Robots use servo motors to move wheels etc. These require regular pulse signals to move to the right position, which the Raspberry 
Pi isn’t that great at sending. Most projects use a Pi alongside separate microcontrollers.
SERVOS AND CONTROLLERS
The PiTank is a web controlled tank that fires 
ping-pong balls. The firing mechanism is based on a 
spud gun and it’s controlled using a web browser that displays real-
time video streaming. It’s powered by a Raspberry Pi and Arduino 
and uses the Raspberry Pi Camera and Adafruit Servo Board.
More info: bit.ly/1PMqdIY
While the PiTank fires guns, the Spy Tank is 
designed to roll around and provide video 
feedback. It uses a fully 3D printed case and the Raspberry Pi 
communicates over WiFi. A GoPiGo board is used to control the two 
motors that move the Spy Tank around. The Raspberry Pi Camera 
Module is used to bounce video over the network to where you are 
monitoring it.
More info: bit.ly/1PMqqMt
Thanks to Siri and OK Google, voice control is fairly commonplace in 
consumer gadgets. So what could be 
cooler than creating a voice controlled 
robot. Alexis Ospitia has created this 
fabulous looking robot that walks 
in response to voice commands, 
and it speaks back.
More info: bit.ly/1PMqgEO
If you’re looking for a robot kit that is 
relatively easy to assemble and supremely 
powerful, then the DiddyBoarg is the one to go for. The DiddyBorg 
kit comes with a laser cut chassis, six motors, a PicoBorg Revers 
motor controller and full build instructions. All you need to add is 
the Raspberry Pi board 
More info: bit.ly/1PMqs6T
  PiTANK
  SPY TANK
  ROBOT - RECOGNITION FROM VOICE
  DIDDYBORG
Amazing Robotics 
Projects to Try
184
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 185 ---
Radio frequency identification 
(RFID) uses electromagnetic fields 
to transfer data and it’s the technology used in contactless smart 
cards. This RFID Music 
Robot plays music when 
the right tag is held next 
to it. It’s a great looking 
project and is also a nice 
way to make something 
using RFID technology.
More info: bit.ly/1PMr4JM
GoPiGo is a popular robot car kit for Raspberry 
Pi. The Starter Kit includes everything you 
need to get started from scratch: a GoPiGo2 Base Kit, Raspberry Pi 
B+, Wi-Fi Dongle, GoPiGo Servo Package, Ultrasonic Sensor, micro 
SD Card, Power Supply and Ethernet Cable. 
Alternatively you can use the GoPiGo2 Base Kit 
and add your own components.
More info: bit.ly/1RHjpT2
  RFID MUSIC ROBOT
  GOPiGO
Building a drone is not a task to be taken lightly. Drones, especially quadcopters, are the most compelling robotics project of 
our time but it’s not easy to control a flying robot carefully and safely.
DRONE PROJECTS
Drone Pi is a project currently underway 
that combines a Multiwii (multiwii.com) with 
a Raspberry Pi. The Multiwii looks after the four motors and 
the Raspberry Pi collects information and communicates with 
a smartphone. The phone is used to monitor footage from the 
camera and control the drone.
More info: bit.ly/1RHjIgy
The cardboard 
quadcopter is an 
autonomous drone with the frame built out of cardboard. It 
was built by four students at Olin College of engineering for a 
class called Principles 
of Engineering and 
the details have been 
put online. It uses a 
HobbyKing Multi-Rotor 
Control Board V2.1 to 
control the four motors.
More info: bit.ly/1RHjR3N
Not all 
drones 
have to be quadcopters and 
there’s a lot to be said for 
creating a different project such 
as this Zeppaloon. Kongsberg 
is an international technology 
corporation that was created 
to teach students all about the 
technology they use to operate 
offshore vessels. It uses a 
Navio2 flight controller.
A great drone project to try is the 
RPAS Drone. This uses a Navio2 flight 
controller and Raspberry Pi 2 combination with a remote control 
aircraft. The result is a remote control aircraft that sends video 
stream over a 4G network. This means it can be flown remotely, 
or set on autopilot, while the video stream is monitored from 
the ground.
More info: bit.ly/1RHkmuz
  DRONE Pi
  CARDBOARD QUADCOPTER
  ZEPPALOON
  RPAS DRONE
185
www.bdmpublications.com
Amazing Robotics Projects to Try
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 186 ---
The Raspberry Pi is a great device for emulating old arcade machines and consoles; its 
GPIO pins make it easy to embed inside arcade machine cabinets and cases. It’s a fun 
project and one that’s extremely entertaining.
The big challenge with most arcade cabinets isn’t the electronics but the cabinet. Big, heavy and mostly wooden they are a real 
project to get stuck into. You can buy cabinets though and just concentrate on building the circuits.
BOX BUILDING
If you’re looking to rebuild the classic arcade machine coffee tables 
from yesteryear, then this project is a great one to follow. It shows 
you how to place two arcade machine controllers and fourteen 
buttons inside a wooden case with a 20-inch monitor.
More info: instructables.com/id/RasPi-Two-Player-Arcade-
Coffee-Table/
If you want an upright display 
but don’t have the space for 
a full arcade machine cabinet then building a bartop is the way to 
go. Bartops are mini arcade machines that sit on top of a table.  This 
project builds a bartop from MDF board and a 19-inch TFT monitor.
More info: instructables.com/id/2-Player-Bartop-Arcade-Machine-
Powered-by-Pi/
If you want to build a classic 
upright standing arcade 
cabinet, then this project is 
the one to follow. It shows 
you how to take apart an 
old arcade machine cabinet 
and replace the insides with 
a Raspberry Pi. You can also 
make your own cabinet from 
scratch and kits are available 
(arcadeworlduk.com).
More info: instructables.com/
id/Multi-Cade-Powered-by-
Raspberry-Pi/
We love this naked arcade machine known as 
NaCade. It’s much smaller and more portable 
than other arcade projects. The box is made from 3mm clear acrylic 
and the display is a normal 7-inch LCD. The controls are a regular 
arcade joystick and buttons. It’s even solar powered. Who couldn’t 
love a solar 
powered retro 
arcade machine 
with all the 
insides on show?
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/NaCade-The-
Naked-Raspberry-
Pi-Arcade-Machine/
  RASPi TWO-PLAYER ARCADE COFFEE TABLE
  GALACTIC STARCADE
  MULTI-CADE
  NaCADE
Arcade Machine Projects 
186
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 187 ---
We love this naked arcade 
machine known as NaCade. 
It’s much smaller and more portable than other arcade projects. 
The box is made from 
3mm clear acrylic and the 
display is a normal 7-inch 
LCD. The controls are a 
regular arcade joystick and 
buttons. It’s even solar 
powered. Who couldn’t 
love a solar powered retro 
arcade machine with all the 
insides on show?
More info: instructables.
com/id/Build-your-own-
Mini-Arcade-Cabinet-with-
Raspberry-/
What makes this 
bartop special? 
Well, it uses an old ION iCade cabinet (ionaudio.com) as its base; 
these can be picked up 
on eBay for around £30. 
An 8 inch display is fitted 
instead of an iPad and the 
controls are wired up to 
it via USB. It’s a lot easier 
than other similar projects 
because you don’t have to 
build the cabinet.
More info: instructables.
com/id/Bartop-Mini-Retro-
Arcade-Raspberry-Pi-
and-Customis/
  PORTA-Pi MINI ARCADE
  BARTOP MINI RETRO ARCADE
Building a laptop is another great project, as it enables you to create and test Python code on the move on your own hardware. 
There are a few laptop kits and projects to choose from. Here are our favourites.
LAPTOP PROJECTS
The Pi-Top is one of the most famous Raspberry 
Pi laptop projects. It combines a 3D printed case 
with a 13.3-inch LCD screen and keyboard. You can 3D print the 
case yourself or buy 
the parts as you need 
them from Pi-Top. 
The kit also uses a 
Smart Battery Pack 
and Hub for power 
management.
More info: pi-top.com
This is a smart 
looking project 
that recycles an Android display case with a tablet keyboard and 
official Raspberry Pi Touchscreen. (swag.raspberrypi.org/products/
raspberry-pi-7-inch-
touchscreen-display). 
Power is supplied using a 
5200mAh power bank. If 
you can scavenge some 
of the parts you can make 
this for much less than the 
other options.
More info: instructables.
com/id/Raspberry-Pi-All-
In-One-With-Touchscreen/
Most laptops are slender and light but this 
is a real sturdy option made from a recycled 
aluminium case. Fitted in the case is a 7-inch LCD panel with a logic 
board, fitted keyboard 
and Raspy Juice PCB 
board (code.google.
com/p/raspy-juice/). It’s 
battery powered and 
has a lot of additional 
features. It’s a great 
package for Raspberry 
Pi on the move.
More info: 
instructables.com/id/
LapPi-A-Raspberry-
Pi-Netbook/
 With so many other great 
options on display, calling this 
the “ultimate” is taking a chance. Mind you, it’s a really great 
looking laptop made from aluminium sheets. Inside the sheets 
there’s a 9-inch LCD display, four port USB hub, WiFi, speakers, 
keyboard, trackpad and 
10400mAh USB power bank. 
How stylish your laptop will be 
depends on your metalworking 
skills and there are slicker 
professional options. It’s a great 
project for learning the art of 
laptop building.
More info: instructables.
com/id/The-Ultimate-
Raspberry-Pi-Laptop/
  ALL-IN-ONE WITH TOUCHSCREEN
  NETBOOK
  Pi-TOP
  ULTIMATE LAPTOP
187
www.bdmpublications.com
Arcade Machine Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 188 ---
Creating devices enables you to track, monitor and get alerts with the best coding 
projects; including the stealthiest spy gadgets and serious home security; there’s 
something here that you’ll find valuable.
The Raspberry Pi is a great device for spying and security. The Camera Module enables it to observe its surroundings and 
networking allows you to get alerts when it spots something. There are some really interesting projects here.
MONITOR AND ALERT
Creating a networked security 
camera is one of the best first 
projects you can create. As its name suggests this is an easy project 
that captures still images and uploads them to a WebAPI service. If 
the network is down 
then it caches the 
images and uploads 
them later.
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/Easy-Raspberry-Pi-
Security-Cam-With-
Automatic-Web-/
We love this project. You strap a Raspberry 
Pi 2 and Camera Module to a pair of 
binoculars and use an Adafruit TFT LCD to view and take pictures. 
It’s a great guide too, leading you step-by-step through the project. 
The end result is a high 
tech pair of binoculars 
that can be used for long 
range image capture. The 
project can be adapted 
for a telescope  
or microscope.
More info: instructables.
com/id/PiNoculars-
Raspberry-Pi-Binoculars/
This project uses a Waveshare Night Vision camera (waveshare.com/
rpi-camera-f.htm) to capture images in the dark and then shares 
them directly to Twitter. Whilst it’s a good security project, it’s ideal 
for keeping an eye on pets or wildlife at night too. The script that 
makes use of the Twitter API is especially worth getting to know.
More info: 
http://www.
instructables.
com/id/Twitter-
Photo-Live-Feed/
This cracking 
time-lapse camera 
project places a Raspberry Pi inside a coffee tin to build a time-lapse 
camera that can be left outdoors for an extended period of time. Illy 
coffee tins are fairly 
robust, reasonably 
watertight and can 
hold a microcomputer, 
Camera Module 
and battery pack. A 
simple script is used to 
capture images on a 
regular basis.
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/Simple-timelapse-
camera-using-
Raspberry-Pi-and-a-c/
  EASY SECURITY CAM
  PiNOCULARS
  TWITTER RASPBERRY Pi PHOTO LIVE FEED
  SIMPLE TIME-LAPSE CAMERA
Security Projects 
188
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 189 ---
Media storage and playback is a classic use of homemade hardware and there is no shortage of unique projects to try out. Here 
we’ve found four of our favourite media related projects.
DIGITAL MEDIA
The computer can detect motion in many ways but the simplest 
is to use any USB webcam to detect motion in a room. This 
project is light on hardware but walks you through using Reactive 
Blocks (bitreactive.
com) to build Java 
SE applications. 
You don’t need any 
Java experience as 
everything is laid 
out for you.
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/Motion-Detection-
Alarm-System/
Want to keep an eye 
on your place when 
you’re not at home? Then the Secret Infrared Camera is a classic 
spy camera device that can record a room in complete darkness. 
It will then send you messages when it detects any activity. You’ll 
need a Raspberry 
Pi NoIR Camera 
Board (raspberrypi.
org/products/
pi-noir-camera/) 
and a PIR sensor to 
detect movement.
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/Make-a-secret-
IR-camera-security-
raspberry-pi-unit/
Keeping children 
occupied is a 
challenge but this project will keep them entertained and stealthily 
introduce them to computer hardware.  This video player is based 
around an ELI70-CR touchscreen and arcade buttons. The case is 
made from laser cut parts and files for the case and software are 
all included.
More info: 
instructables.com/id/
Raspberry-Pi-video-
player-for-Children/
Yaah, me hearties. The pirates still be 
floating after all these years. While file 
sharing online is a heartless task, this PirateBox creates a local Wi-Fi 
network completely independent from the Internet. This is then 
used with anonymous file sharing and chatting capabilities. So you 
can all share digital files locally, and it has a pretty nice case too.
More info: 
instructables.
com/id/Raspberry-
Pi-PirateBox/
Just as old VCRs make great media 
players, classic radios make amazing 
digital music boxes. This Roberts 747 is a classic radio from 1990 
that has been transformed internally into a digital music player. It 
uses Pi MusicBox (pimusicbox.com) software that supports Spotify, 
AirPlay and Internet Radio. You select tracks using a web browser 
from a smartphone 
and it looks identical 
to the original on 
the outside.
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/Roberts-747-DIY-
Raspberry-Pi-internet-
radiostreame/
Recycling old technology with 
modern innards is a great way 
to build a quirky, cool but still fully functional device. We think this 
1981 Portable VCR Project is great; it takes an old video-recorder 
and places the excellent Raspbmc Media Centre software at its 
heart. It can then stream content like BBC iPlayer and YouTube or 
play back media files.
More info: 
instructables.com/
id/1981-Portable-
VCR-Raspberry-PI-
Media-Centre/
  MOTION DETECTION ALARM SYSTEM
  SECRET INFRARED CAMERA
  VIDEO PLAYER FOR CHILDREN
  PIRATEBOX
  ROBERTS 747
  1981 PORTABLE VCR
189
www.bdmpublications.com
Security Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 190 ---
Well done for making it this far. With what you’ve learned you can confidently start to 
create engaging Python code. Don’t stop now though, there’s plenty more to learn to 
help you achieve great things.
Learning to code any language, from absolute beginner to industry professional, is possible using nothing but free online resources. 
Some sites offer video tutorials, others offer interactive learning and there are hundreds of great books and websites to read.
LEARNING CODE
Codecademy (codecademy.com) is a 
good place to start. This website has 
interactive courses that walk you through the process of starting 
code. It turns coding into a game, with points and rewards for 
completion. Start with the HTML & CSS course, then move on to 
JavaScript or hone your Python skills.
You don’t need to be a 
mathematician to program. 
Programming is a mixture of abstraction and word structure; in 
many ways it’s closer to poetry than maths. Having said that, sooner 
or later you might want to brush up on your maths skills. Khan 
Academy (khanacademy.org) is the place to go.
Learn Python The Hard Way 
(learnpythonthehardway.
org/book) is a well-established online course that’s free to 
take; although you can pay to get additional materials like code 
downloads and videos. It’s somewhat controversial and gets pretty 
tough towards the end but it really does take you through the nuts 
and bolts of computer programming.
Once you’ve started to get the hang 
of the basics, you’ll be in need of 
a few projects to try out. There’s nothing worse than trying to 
come up with ideas for things to do with code. A good practice 
area is ProjectEuler (projecteuler.net/archives). This table lists 
an archive of programming problems. It’s ideal for flexing your 
programming muscles.
  CODECADEMY
  KHAN ACADEMY
  LEARN THE HARD WAY
  PROJECT EULER
Becoming a Coder
190
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 191 ---
As you start to 
progress you may 
want to move onto a more practical course. Both Udemy.com and 
Lynda.com have a range of good tutorials on a range of computing 
subjects. You have to pay for courses in Udemy, although they 
often have flash sales. Lynda.com has a wider range of subjects but 
requires a monthly fee. Both are great investments.
Beyond the sites we’ve 
mentioned so far, there 
are a huge list of resources available online. This web page on 
StackOverflow (stackoverflow.com/revisions/392926/175) collects 
a huge list of online computer books, programming tutorials and 
thought provoking articles. 97 Things Every Programmer Should 
Know is a good read (http://programmer.97things.oreilly.com/wiki/
index.php/97_Things_Every_Programmer_Should_Know).
  UDEMY.COM & LYNDA.COM
  STACK OVERFLOW
MOOCS (Massive Open Online Courses) are a fantastic way to learn computer programming. These modern courses are often run 
by world class universities like Stanford, MIT and Harvard and offer you the chance to learn from the top experts in the world.
PROFESSIONAL LEARNING
Harvard’s CS50: Introduction to Computer Science 
(edx.org) is the best place to start. This online course 
can be covered at your own pace and offers a comprehensive 
introduction to the art of computer science and programming. 
It’s designed for Harvard students with little or no knowledge of 
computing and you can get a verified certificate from it.
Alongside Harvard’s CS50 course lies a selection 
of videos from MIT. The lectures from MIT 6.00 
Introduction to Computer Science and Programming can all be 
watched on YouTube (youtube.com/watch?v=k6U-i4gXkLM). 
Prof. Eric Grimson and Prof. John Guttag will walk you all the 
way from being a newcomer to having a deep understanding of 
programming concepts.
If you’re going to get serious about computer science you need to 
get a good understanding of the mathematics involved. Use Khan 
Academy to catch up on any basics, then follow MITs Mathematics 
for Computer Science (ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-
and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-
fall-2010/).
If you are truly 
dedicated, you can 
pick up the equivalent of a Bachelor’s Level Computer Science 
Program using nothing but free online courses. There is a huge 
range available at MIT, Stanford and Berkley. Take a look at this 
web page for a suggestion of courses to follow: http://blog.
agupieware.com/2014/05/online-learning-bachelors-level.html.
  MIT 6.00
  MATHEMATICS FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE
  CS50
  MIT, STANFORD & BERKLEY
191
www.bdmpublications.com
Becoming a Coder
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 192 ---
Just like most technology, Python contains many confusing words and acronyms. Here 
then, for your own sanity, is a handy glossary to help you keep on top of what’s being 
said when the conversation turns to Python programming. 
Glossary of Terms
Argument 
The detailed extra information used by Python to perform more 
detailed commands. Can also be used in the command prompt to 
specify a certain runtime event.
Block 
Used to describe a section or sections of code that are 
grouped together.
Break 
A command that can be used to exit a for or while loop. For example, 
if a key is pressed to quit the program, Break will exit the loop.
Class 
A class provides a means of bundling data and functionality together. 
They are used to encapsulate variables and functions into a single entity.
Comments 
A comment is a section of real world wording inserted by the 
programmer to help document what’s going on in the code. They 
can be single line or multi-line and are defined by a # or ‘’’.
Debian 
A Linux-based distro or distribution that forms the Debian Project. 
This environment offers the user a friendly and stable GUI to 
interact with along with Terminal commands and other forms of 
system level administration.
Def 
Used to define a function or method in Python.
Dictionaries 
A dictionary in Python is a data structure that consists of key and 
value pairs.
Distro 
Also Distribution, an operating system that uses the Linux Kernel as its 
core but offers something different in its presentation to the end user.
Editor 
An individual program, or a part of the graphical version of Python, 
that enables the user to enter code ready for execution.
Exceptions  
Used as a means of breaking from the normal flow of a code block in 
order to handle any potential errors or exceptional conditions within 
the program.
Expression 
Essentially, Python code that produces a value of something.
Float 
An immutable floating point number used in Python.
Function 
Used in Python to define a sequence of statements that can be 
called or referenced at any time by the programmer.
GitHub 
A web-based version control and collaboration portal designed for 
software developers to better manage source code.
Global Variable 
A variable that is useable anywhere in the program.
Graphics 
The use of visual interaction with a program, game or operating 
system. Designed to make it easier for the user to manage the 
program in question.
GUI 
Graphical User Interface. The interface which most modern 
operating systems use to enable the user to interact with the 
core programming of the system. A friendly, easy to use graphical 
desktop environment.
High-Level Language 
A programming language that’s designed to be easy for people to read.
IDLE 
Stands for Integrated Development Environment or Integrated 
Development and Learning Environment.
Immutable 
Something that cannot be changed after it is created.
Import 
Used in Python to include modules together with all the 
accompanying code, functions and variables they contain.
Indentation 
Python uses indentation to delimit blocks of code. The indents are 
four spaces apart, and are often created automatically after a colon 
is used in the code.
192
Robots, Drones and Cool Python Projects
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 193 ---
Integer 
A number data type that must be a whole number and not 
a decimal.
Interactive Shell 
The Python Shell, which is displayed whenever you launch the 
graphical version of Python.
Kernel 
The core of an operating system, which handles data processing, 
memory allocation, input and output, and processes information 
between the hardware and programs.
Linux 
An open source operating system that’s modelled on UNIX. 
Developed in 1991 by Finnish student Linus Torvalds.
Lists 
A Python data type that contains collections of values, which can be 
of any type and can readily be modified.
Local Variable 
A variable that’s defined inside a function and is only useable inside 
that function.
Loop 
A piece of code that repeats itself until a certain condition is met. 
Loops can encase the entire code or just sections of it.
Module 
A Python file that contains various functions that can be used within 
another program to further extend the effectiveness of the code.
Operating System 
Also OS. The program that’s loaded into the computer after the 
initial boot sequence has completed. The OS manages all the other 
programs, graphical user interface (GUI), input and output and 
physical hardware interactions with the user.
Output 
Data that is sent from the program to a screen, printer or other 
external peripheral.
PIP 
Pip Installs Packages. A package management system used to install 
and manage modules and other software written in Python.
Print 
A function used to display the output of something to the screen.
Prompt 
The element of Python, or the Command Line, where the user 
enters their commands. In Python it’s represented as >>> in the 
interactive shell.
Pygame 
A Python module that’s designed for writing games. It includes 
graphics and sound libraries and was first developed in 
October 2000. 
 
Python 
An awesome programming language that’s easy to learn and use, 
whilst still being powerful enough to enjoy.
Random 
A Python module that implements a pseudo-random character 
generator using the Mersenne Twister PRNG.
Range 
A function that used to return a list of integers, defined by the 
arguments passed through it.
Root 
The bottom level user account used by the system itself. Root is the 
overall system administrator and can go anywhere, and do anything, 
on the system.
Sets 
Sets are a collection of unordered but unique data types.
Strings 
Strings can store characters that can be modified. The contents of 
a string are alphanumerical and can be enclosed by either single or 
double quote marks.
Terminal 
Also Console or Shell. The command line interface to the operating 
system, namely Linux, but also available in macOS. From there you 
can execute code and navigate the filesystem. 
Tkinter 
A Python module designed to interact with the graphical 
environment, specifically the tk-GUI (Tool Kit Graphical User Interface).
Try 
A try block allows exceptions to be raised, so any errors can be 
caught and handled according to the programmer’s instructions.
Tuples 
An immutable Python data type that contains an ordered set of 
either letters or numbers.
UNIX 
A multitasking, multiuser operating system designed in the ‘70s at 
the Bell Labs Research Centre. Written in C and assembly language
Variables 
A data item that has been assigned a storage location in the 
computer’s memory.
X 
Also X11 or X-windows. The graphical desktop used in Linux-based 
systems, combining visual enhancements and tools to manage the 
core operating system.
Zen of Python 
When you enter: import this into the IDLE, the Zen of Python  
is displayed.
193
www.bdmpublications.com
Glossary of Terms
BDM’s: The Python Manual


--- Page 194 ---
Don’t miss these great BDM publications
Available now at your local retailer
Follow us on Facebook: BDM Publications
Follow us on Twitter: @BDMpubs
Visit us at: www.bdmpublications.com | www.ultimatephotoshop.com


--- Page 195 ---


--- Page 196 ---
Regardless of whether you’re a student, computer 
enthusiast or just curious as to how programming 
works, our tutorials will help you discover how Python 
works and how it can be used to interact with you and 
other users. What’s more, you’ll learn how to think like a 
computer programmer.
The Python Manual has been written to help you get 
into Python from the ground up. Learn where to go 
to download Python and install and launch it from 
Windows, macOS, Linux computers and even the 
Raspberry Pi. 
The tutorials in this book have been written to help you 
build your conﬁdence in using Python. Starting with 
simple code to begin with, you’ll soon be able to create 
a Python program that can ask the user’s name, store 
information in a database-like setting, manipulate lists 
of data and even write to ﬁles in your system.
Once you’ve mastered the ﬁner points of Python 
programming and to help you in your quest for 
creating code, we’ve included a huge Python code 
repository. Here you can snip sections out or even use 
the entire code in your own programs. It’s a valuable 
tool that will help you get the best from Python and 
your code.
Python has fast become one of the most 
popular programming languages to learn 
and use. Its versatility, ease of use and 
applications are found in the classroom, 
oﬃce, server room and the Internet. 
Getting started with a programming 
language can be tricky, knowing where to 
start and what to use and how to actually 
begin coding. This is where The Python 
Manual comes in.
This book will get you up and running with 
the latest version of Python in no time. Soon 
you’ll be learning how to code, and more 
importantly, how to apply that code to a 
real world situation such as creating a game, 
coding a backup script or creating a random 
password generator. 
Manual
python
The
D
o
w
n
l
o
a
d
 
O
v
e
r
P
y
t
h
o
n
 
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
20
 BDM’s